{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486356', u'author': u'S. Ji and T. Du and Z. Hong and T. Wang and R. Beyah', u'title': u'Quantifying Graph Anonymity, Utility, and De-anonymity', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In this paper, we study the correlation of graph da-ta's anonymity, utility, and de-anonymity. Our main contributions include four perspectives. First, to the best of our knowledge, we conduct the first Anonymity-Utility-De-anonymity (AUD) correlation quantification for graph data and obtain close-forms for such correlation under both a preliminary mathematical model and a general data model. Second, we integrate our AUD quantification to SecGraph [31], a recently published Secure Graph data sharing/publishing system, and extend it to Sec-Graph+. Compared to SecGraph, SecGraph+ is an improved and enhanced uniform and open-source system for comprehensively studying graph anonymization, de-anonymization, and utility evaluation. Third, based on our AUD quantification, we evaluate the anonymity, utility, and de-anonymity of 12 real world graph datasets which are generated from various computer systems and services. The results show that the achievable anonymity/de-anonymity depends on multiple factors, e.g., the preserved data utility, the quality of the employed auxiliary data. Finally, we apply our AUD quantification to evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art anonymization and de-anonymization techniques. Interestingly, we find that there is still significant space to improve state-of-the-art de-anonymization attacks. We also explicitly and quantitatively demonstrate such possible improvement space.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1736-1744', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'data privacy;graph theory;security of data;Graph Anonymity;Anonymity-Utility-De-anonymity correlation quantification;AUD quantification;graph anonymization;utility evaluation;data model;data utility;auxiliary data;SecGraph;Secure Graph data sharing/publishing system;Sec-Graph+;Correlation;Data models;Erbium;Measurement;Electronic mail;Conferences;Mathematical model', 'ID': u'8486356', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486356', u'author': u'S. Ji and T. Du and Z. Hong and T. Wang and R. Beyah', u'title': u'Quantifying Graph Anonymity, Utility, and De-anonymity', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In this paper, we study the correlation of graph da-ta's anonymity, utility, and de-anonymity. Our main contributions include four perspectives. First, to the best of our knowledge, we conduct the first Anonymity-Utility-De-anonymity (AUD) correlation quantification for graph data and obtain close-forms for such correlation under both a preliminary mathematical model and a general data model. Second, we integrate our AUD quantification to SecGraph [31], a recently published Secure Graph data sharing/publishing system, and extend it to Sec-Graph+. Compared to SecGraph, SecGraph+ is an improved and enhanced uniform and open-source system for comprehensively studying graph anonymization, de-anonymization, and utility evaluation. Third, based on our AUD quantification, we evaluate the anonymity, utility, and de-anonymity of 12 real world graph datasets which are generated from various computer systems and services. The results show that the achievable anonymity/de-anonymity depends on multiple factors, e.g., the preserved data utility, the quality of the employed auxiliary data. Finally, we apply our AUD quantification to evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art anonymization and de-anonymization techniques. Interestingly, we find that there is still significant space to improve state-of-the-art de-anonymization attacks. We also explicitly and quantitatively demonstrate such possible improvement space.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1736-1744', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'data privacy;graph theory;security of data;Graph Anonymity;Anonymity-Utility-De-anonymity correlation quantification;AUD quantification;graph anonymization;utility evaluation;data model;data utility;auxiliary data;SecGraph;Secure Graph data sharing/publishing system;Sec-Graph+;Correlation;Data models;Erbium;Measurement;Electronic mail;Conferences;Mathematical model', 'ID': u'8486356', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486327', u'author': u'S. Xue and L. Zhang and A. Li and X. Li and C. Ruan and W. Huang', u'title': u'AppDNA: App Behavior Profiling via Graph-based Deep Learning', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Better understanding of mobile applications' behaviors would lead to better malware detection/classification and better app recommendation for users. In this work, we design a framework AppDNA to automatically generate a compact representation for each app to comprehensively profile its behaviors. The behavior difference between two apps can be measured by the distance between their representations. As a result, the versatile representation can be generated once for each app, and then be used for a wide variety of objectives, including malware detection, app categorizing, plagiarism detection, etc. Based on a systematic and deep understanding of an app's behavior, we propose to perform a function-call-graph-based app profiling. We carefully design a graph-encoding method to convert a typically extremely large call-graph to a 64-dimension fix-size vector to achieve robust app profiling. Our extensive evaluations based on 86,332 benign and malicious apps demonstrate that our system performs app profiling (thus malware detection, classification, and app recommendation) to a high accuracy with extremely low computation cost: it classifies 4024 (benign/malware) apps using around 5.06 second with accuracy about 93.07%; it classifies 570 malware's family (total 21 families) using around 0.83 second with accuracy 82.3%; it classifies 9,730 apps' functionality with accuracy 33.3% for a total of 7 categories and accuracy of 88.1 % for 2 categories.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1475-1483', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'graph theory;invasive software;learning (artificial intelligence);mobile computing;pattern classification;app recommendation;function-call-graph-based app profiling;graph-encoding method;malicious apps;app behavior profiling;malware detection;benign apps;mobile applications behaviors;malware classification;AppDNA;graph-based deep learning;Malware;Feature extraction;Encoding;Task analysis;Plagiarism;Neural networks;Machine learning', 'ID': u'8486327', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486327', u'author': u'S. Xue and L. Zhang and A. Li and X. Li and C. Ruan and W. Huang', u'title': u'AppDNA: App Behavior Profiling via Graph-based Deep Learning', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Better understanding of mobile applications' behaviors would lead to better malware detection/classification and better app recommendation for users. In this work, we design a framework AppDNA to automatically generate a compact representation for each app to comprehensively profile its behaviors. The behavior difference between two apps can be measured by the distance between their representations. As a result, the versatile representation can be generated once for each app, and then be used for a wide variety of objectives, including malware detection, app categorizing, plagiarism detection, etc. Based on a systematic and deep understanding of an app's behavior, we propose to perform a function-call-graph-based app profiling. We carefully design a graph-encoding method to convert a typically extremely large call-graph to a 64-dimension fix-size vector to achieve robust app profiling. Our extensive evaluations based on 86,332 benign and malicious apps demonstrate that our system performs app profiling (thus malware detection, classification, and app recommendation) to a high accuracy with extremely low computation cost: it classifies 4024 (benign/malware) apps using around 5.06 second with accuracy about 93.07%; it classifies 570 malware's family (total 21 families) using around 0.83 second with accuracy 82.3%; it classifies 9,730 apps' functionality with accuracy 33.3% for a total of 7 categories and accuracy of 88.1 % for 2 categories.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1475-1483', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'graph theory;invasive software;learning (artificial intelligence);mobile computing;pattern classification;app recommendation;function-call-graph-based app profiling;graph-encoding method;malicious apps;app behavior profiling;malware detection;benign apps;mobile applications behaviors;malware classification;AppDNA;graph-based deep learning;Malware;Feature extraction;Encoding;Task analysis;Plagiarism;Neural networks;Machine learning', 'ID': u'8486327', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2016.7524585', u'author': u'S. Ji and W. Li and S. Yang and P. Mittal and R. Beyah', u'title': u'On the relative de-anonymizability of graph data: Quantification and evaluation', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In this paper, we propose a structural importance-aware approach to quantify the vulnerability/de-anonymizability of graph data to structure-based De-Anonymization (DA) attacks [1][2][3][4]. Specifically, we quantify both the seed-based and the seed-free Relative De-anonymizability (RD) of graph data for both perfect DA (successfully de-anonymizing all the target users) and partial DA (where some DA error is tolerated) under a general data model. In our relative quantification, instead of treating all the users in graph data as structurally equivalent, we adaptively quantify their RD in terms of their structural importance. Leveraging 15 real world graph datasets, we validate the accuracy of our relative quantifications and compare them with state-of-the-art seed-based and seed-free quantification techniques. The results demonstrate that our structural importance-aware relative quantifications are more sound and precise when measuring graph data's real vulnerability/de-anonymizability.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2016', u'keywords': u'data mining;data privacy;graph theory;graph data;structural importance-aware approach;structure-based deanonymization attack;seed-based relative deanonymizability;seed-free relative deanonymizability;relative quantification;Data models;Erbium;Government;Facebook;Computers;Medical services', 'ID': u'7524585', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2016 - The 35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486415', u'author': u'S. Z. Kiss and \xc9. Hosszu and J. Tapolcai and L. R\xf3nyai and O. Rottenstreich', u'title': u'Bloom Filter with a False Positive Free Zone', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Bloom filters and their variants are widely used as space efficient probabilistic data structures for representing set systems and are very popular in networking applications. They support fast element insertion and deletion, along with membership queries with the drawback of false positives. Bloom filters can be designed to match the false positive rates that are acceptable for the application domain. However, in many applications a common engineering solution is to set the false positive rate very small, and ignore the existence of the very unlikely false positive answers. This paper is devoted to close the gap between the two design concepts of unlikely and not having false positives. We propose a data structure, called EGH filter, that supports the Bloom filter operations and besides it can guarantee false positive free operations for a finite universe and a restricted number of elements stored in the filter. We refer to the limited universe and filter size as the false positive free zone of the filter. We describe necessary conditions for the false positive free zone of a filter and generalize the filter to support listing of the elements. We evaluate the performance of the filter in comparison with the traditional Bloom filters. Our data structure is based on recently developed combinatorial group testing techniques.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1412-1420', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'data structures;Bloom filter operations;false positive free operations;filter size;false positive free zone;false positive rate;probabilistic data structures;EGH filter;combinatorial group testing techniques;Testing;Probabilistic logic;Probes;Conferences;Arrays;Focusing', 'ID': u'8486415', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486332', u'author': u'K. Xie and X. Li and X. Wang and G. Xie and J. Wen and D. Zhang', u'title': u'Graph based Tensor Recovery for Accurate Internet Anomaly Detection', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Detecting anomalous traffic is a crucial task of managing networks. Many anomaly detection algorithms have been proposed recently. However, constrained by their matrix-based traffic data model, existing algorithms often suffer from low detection accuracy. To fully utilize the multi-dimensional information hidden in the traffic data, this paper takes an initiative to investigate the potential and methodologies of performing tensor factorization for more accurate Internet anomaly detection. Only considering the low-rank linearity features hidden in the data, current tensor factorization techniques would result in low anomaly detection accuracy. We propose a novel Graph-based Tensor Recovery model (Graph-TR) to well explore both low rank linearity features as well as the non-linear proximity information hidden in the traffic data for better anomaly detection. We encode the non-linear proximity information of the traffic data by constructing nearest neighbor graphs and incorporate this information into the tensor factorization using the graph Laplacian. Moreover, to facilitate the quick building of neighbor graph, we propose a nearest neighbor searching algorithm with the simple locality-sensitive hashing (LSH). We have conducted extensive experiments using Internet traffic trace data Abilene and GEANT. Compared with the state of art algorithms on matrix-based anomaly detection and tensor recovery approach, our Graph-Trcan achieve significantly lower False Positive Rate and higher True Positive Rate.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1502-1510', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'computer network security;graph theory;Internet;IP networks;matrix decomposition;search problems;telecommunication traffic;tensors;accurate Internet anomaly detection;low-rank linearity features;current tensor factorization techniques;low anomaly detection accuracy;Graph-TR;low rank linearity features;nonlinear proximity information;nearest neighbor graphs;graph Laplacian;neighbor graph;nearest neighbor searching algorithm;matrix-based anomaly detection;tensor recovery approach;Graph-Trcan;anomalous traffic;anomaly detection algorithms;matrix-based traffic data model;low detection accuracy;multidimensional information;Graph-based Tensor Recovery model;Tensile stress;Anomaly detection;Manifolds;Data models;Internet;Indexes;Noise measurement;Traffic anomaly detection;Tensor Recovery;Graph', 'ID': u'8486332', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.325', u'author': u'D. Guo and J. Wu and H. Chen and X. Luo', u'title': u'Theory and Network Applications of Dynamic Bloom Filters', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Filtering theory;Band pass filters;Information filtering;Information filters;Data structures;Costs;Peer to peer computing;Routing;Counting circuits;Algebra', 'ID': u'4146978', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2012.6195533', u'author': u'O. Rottenstreich and I. Keslassy', u'title': u'The Bloom paradox: When not to use a Bloom filter?', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, we uncover the Bloom paradox in Bloom filters: sometimes, it is better to disregard the query results of Bloom filters, and in fact not to even query them, thus making them useless. We first analyze conditions under which the Bloom paradox occurs in a Bloom filter, and demonstrate that it depends on the a priori probability that a given element belongs to the represented set. We show that the Bloom paradox also applies to Counting Bloom Filters (CBFs), and depends on the product of the hashed counters of each element. In addition, both for Bloom filters and CBFs, we suggest improved architectures that deal with the Bloom paradox. We also provide fundamental memory lower bounds required to support element queries with limited false-positive and false-negative rates. Last, using simulations, we verify our theoretical results, and show that our improved schemes can lead to a significant improvement in the performance of Bloom filters and CBFs.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1638-1646', u'year': u'2012', u'keywords': u'data structures;probability;Bloom paradox;Bloom filter;a priori probability;counting Bloom filter;memory lower bound;element query;false-positive rate;false-negative rate;Radiation detectors;Probability;Memory management;Data structures;Servers;Probabilistic logic;Approximation methods', 'ID': u'6195533', u'booktitle': u'2012 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486019', u'author': u'H. Yu and G. Iosifidis and B. Shou and J. Huang', u'title': u'Market Your Venue with Mobile Applications: Collaboration of Online and Offline Businesses', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Many mobile applications (abbrev. apps) reward the users who physically visit some locations tagged as POIs (places-of-interest) by the apps. In this paper, we study the POI-based collaboration between apps and venues (e.g., restaurants and cafes). On the one hand, an app charges a venue and tags the venue as a POI, which attracts users to visit the venue and potentially increases the venue's sales. On the other hand, the venue can invest in the app-related infrastructure (e.g., Wi-Fi networks and smartphone chargers), which enhances the users' experience of using the app. However, the existing POI pricing schemes of the apps (e.g., Pokemon Go and Snapchat) cannot incentivize the venue's infrastructure investment, and hence cannot achieve the most effective app-venue collaboration. We model the interactions among an app, a venue, and users by a three-stage Stackelberg game, and design an optimal two-part pricing scheme for the app. This scheme has a charge-with-subsidy structure: the app first charges the venue for becoming a POI, and then subsidizes the venue every time a user interacts with the POI. Compared with the existing pricing schemes, our two-part pricing better incentivizes the venue's investment, attracts more users to interact with the POI, and achieves a much larger app revenue. We analyze the impacts of the app's and venue's characteristics on the app's optimal revenrevenueue, and show that the apps with small and large congestion effects should collaborate with opposite types of venues.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1934-1942', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'game theory;marketing data processing;mobile computing;pricing;smart phones;application related infrastructure;POI pricing schemes;Market Your Venue;offline business;online business;places-of-interest;three-stage Stackelberg game;optimal two-part pricing;mobile applications;Pricing;Games;Investment;Collaboration;Advertising;Wireless fidelity', 'ID': u'8486019', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
