{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.149', u'author': u'X. Tang and J. Xu', u'title': u'Extending Network Lifetime for Precision-Constrained Data Aggregation in Wireless Sensor Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Wireless sensor networks;Base stations;Peer to peer computing;Temperature sensors;Energy consumption;Costs;Wireless communication;Monitoring;Energy efficiency;Computer networks', 'ID': u'4146802', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486366', u'author': u'Q. Chen and H. Gao and Z. Cai and L. Cheng and J. Li', u'title': u'Energy-Collision Aware Data Aggregation Scheduling for Energy Harvesting Sensor Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'The emerging energy harvesting technology enables charging sensor batteries with renewable energy sources, which has been effectively integrated into Wireless Sensor Networks (EH-WSNs). Meanwhile, data aggregation is an essential operation in a WSN. The problem of Minimum Latency Aggregation Scheduling (MLAS) which seeks a fast and collision-free aggregation schedule has been well studied when nodes are energy-abundant. However, due to the limited energy harvesting capacities of tiny sensors, the captured energy remains scarce and differs greatly among nodes. Thus, all of the previous algorithms for MLAS are not suitable in EH-WSNs. In this paper, we investigate the MLAS problem in EH-WSNs. To make use of the harvested energy smartly, we construct an aggregation tree adaptively according to the residual battery level at each node. Furthermore, we identify a new kind of collision, named as energy -collision, and design a special structure to assist in avoiding it. By considering transmitting time, residual energy, and energy-collision, we propose three scheduling algorithms for MLAS problem in EH-WSNs. The theoretical analysis and simulation results verify that the proposed algorithms have high performance in terms of aggregation latency compared with the baseline methods.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'117-125', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'energy harvesting;telecommunication power management;telecommunication scheduling;trees (mathematics);wireless sensor networks;aggregation tree;energy-collision;transmitting time;captured energy;tiny sensors;energy harvesting capacities;collision-free aggregation schedule;Minimum Latency Aggregation Scheduling;Wireless Sensor Networks;renewable energy sources;sensor batteries;emerging energy harvesting technology;energy harvesting Sensor Networks;energy-collision aware data Aggregation Scheduling;MLAS problem;scheduling algorithms;residual energy;residual battery level;EH-WSNs;Data aggregation;Batteries;Schedules;Wireless sensor networks;Scheduling algorithms;Energy harvesting;Interference', 'ID': u'8486366', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8485808', u'author': u'T. Shi and J. Li and H. Gao and Z. Cai', u'title': u'Coverage in Battery-Free Wireless Sensor Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Battery-Free Wireless Sensor Network (BF-WSN) is a newly proposed network architecture to address the limitation of traditional Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs). The special features of BF-WSNs make the coverage problem quite different and even more challenging from and than that in traditional WSNs. This paper defines a new coverage problem in BF-WSNs which aims at maximizing coverage quality rather than prolonging network lifetime. The newly defined coverage problem is proved to be at least NP-Hard. Two sufficient conditions, under which the optimal solution of the problem can be derived in polynomial time, are given in this paper. Furthermore, two approximate algorithms are proposed to derive nearly optimal coverage when the sufficient conditions are unsatisfied. The time complexity and approximate ratio of the two algorithms are analyzed. Extensive simulations are carried out to examine the performance of the proposed algorithms. The simulation results show that these algorithms are efficient and effective.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'108-116', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'approximation theory;communication complexity;optimisation;polynomials;telecommunication network reliability;wireless sensor networks;battery-free wireless sensor networks;coverage quality maximization;prolonged network lifetime;NP-hard problem;polynomial;approximate algorithms;time complexity;network lifetime;BF-WSN;Wireless sensor networks;Monitoring;Approximation algorithms;Batteries;Energy resources;Sensors;Conferences', 'ID': u'8485808', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486237', u'author': u'B. Tang', u'title': u'DAO2: Overcoming Overall Storage Overflow in Intermittently Connected Sensor Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Many emerging sensor network applications operate in challenging environments wherein sensor nodes do not always have connected paths to the base station. Data generated from such intermittently connected sensor networks therefore must be stored inside the network for some unpredictable period of time before uploading opportunities become available. Consequently, sensory data could overflow limited storage capacity available in the entire network, making discarding valuable data inevitable. To overcome such overall storage overflow in intermittently connected sensor networks, we propose and study a new algorithmic problem called data aggregation for overall storage overflow (DA02). Utilizing spatial data correlation that commonly exists among sensory data, DAO2employs data aggregation techniques to reduce the overflow data size while minimizing the total energy consumption. To solve DAO2, we uncover a new graph theoretic problem called multiple traveling salesman walks (MTSW), and show that with proper graph transformation, the DAO2is equivalent to the MTSW. We prove that MTSW is NP-hard and design a (2-1.)-approximation q algorithm, where q is the number of nodes to visit (i.e., the number of sensor nodes that aggregate their overflow data). The approximation algorithm is based on a novel routing structure called minimum q-edge forest that accurately captures information needed for energy-efficient data aggregation. We further put forward a heuristic algorithm and empirically show that it constantly outperforms the approximation algorithm by 15% -30% in energy consumption. Finally, we propose a distributed data aggregation algorithm that can achieve the same approximation ratio as the centralized algorithm under some condition, while incurring comparable energy consumption.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'135-143', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'approximation theory;computational complexity;graph theory;telecommunication network routing;telecommunication power management;travelling salesman problems;wireless sensor networks;spatial data correlation;sensory data;centralized algorithm;approximation ratio;distributed data aggregation algorithm;heuristic algorithm;minimum q-edge forest;routing structure;(2-1.)-approximation q algorithm;NP-hard;MTSW;multiple traveling salesman walks;graph theoretic problem;total energy consumption minimization;overflow data size reduction;base station;overall storage overflow;DAO2;sensor network applications;intermittently connected sensor networks;energy-efficient data aggregation;sensor nodes;Data aggregation;Approximation algorithms;Correlation;Heuristic algorithms;Base stations;Energy consumption;Data models;Intermittently Connected Sensor Networks;Data Aggregation;Approximation Algorithms;Graph Theory', 'ID': u'8486237', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486237', u'author': u'B. Tang', u'title': u'DAO2: Overcoming Overall Storage Overflow in Intermittently Connected Sensor Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Many emerging sensor network applications operate in challenging environments wherein sensor nodes do not always have connected paths to the base station. Data generated from such intermittently connected sensor networks therefore must be stored inside the network for some unpredictable period of time before uploading opportunities become available. Consequently, sensory data could overflow limited storage capacity available in the entire network, making discarding valuable data inevitable. To overcome such overall storage overflow in intermittently connected sensor networks, we propose and study a new algorithmic problem called data aggregation for overall storage overflow (DA02). Utilizing spatial data correlation that commonly exists among sensory data, DAO2employs data aggregation techniques to reduce the overflow data size while minimizing the total energy consumption. To solve DAO2, we uncover a new graph theoretic problem called multiple traveling salesman walks (MTSW), and show that with proper graph transformation, the DAO2is equivalent to the MTSW. We prove that MTSW is NP-hard and design a (2-1.)-approximation q algorithm, where q is the number of nodes to visit (i.e., the number of sensor nodes that aggregate their overflow data). The approximation algorithm is based on a novel routing structure called minimum q-edge forest that accurately captures information needed for energy-efficient data aggregation. We further put forward a heuristic algorithm and empirically show that it constantly outperforms the approximation algorithm by 15% -30% in energy consumption. Finally, we propose a distributed data aggregation algorithm that can achieve the same approximation ratio as the centralized algorithm under some condition, while incurring comparable energy consumption.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'135-143', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'approximation theory;computational complexity;graph theory;telecommunication network routing;telecommunication power management;travelling salesman problems;wireless sensor networks;spatial data correlation;sensory data;centralized algorithm;approximation ratio;distributed data aggregation algorithm;heuristic algorithm;minimum q-edge forest;routing structure;(2-1.)-approximation q algorithm;NP-hard;MTSW;multiple traveling salesman walks;graph theoretic problem;total energy consumption minimization;overflow data size reduction;base station;overall storage overflow;DAO2;sensor network applications;intermittently connected sensor networks;energy-efficient data aggregation;sensor nodes;Data aggregation;Approximation algorithms;Correlation;Heuristic algorithms;Base stations;Energy consumption;Data models;Intermittently Connected Sensor Networks;Data Aggregation;Approximation Algorithms;Graph Theory', 'ID': u'8486237', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5934977', u'author': u'Y. Wang and G. Cao', u'title': u'On full-view coverage in camera sensor networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Camera sensors are different from traditional scalar sensors as different cameras from different positions can form distinct views of the object. However, traditional disk sensing model does not consider this intrinsic property of camera sensors. To this end, we propose a novel model called full-view coverage. An object is considered to be full-view covered if for any direction from 0 to 2\u03c0 (object's facing direction), there is always a sensor such that the object is within the sensor's range and more importantly the sensor's viewing direction is sufficiently close to the object's facing direction. With this model, we propose an efficient method for full-view coverage detection in any given camera sensor networks. We also derive a sufficient condition on the sensor density needed for full-view coverage in a random uniform deployment. Finally, we show a necessary and sufficient condition on the sensor density for full-view coverage in a triangular lattice based deployment.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1781-1789', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'cameras;object detection;camera sensor networks;full-view coverage;disk sensing;object facing direction;sensor density;random uniform deployment;triangular lattice', 'ID': u'5934977', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486402', u'author': u'C. Lin and Z. Wang and J. Deng and L. Wang and J. Ren and G. Wu', u'title': u'mTS: Temporal-and Spatial-Collaborative Charging for Wireless Rechargeable Sensor Networks with Multiple Vehicles', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Benefited from recent breakthrough in wireless power transfer technology, the lifetime of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) can be prolonged significantly, generating the concept of wireless rechargeable sensor networks (WRSNs). While most recent works have been focusing on WRSNs with a single wireless charging vehicle (WCV), we investigate the issue of multiple WCVs' on-line collaborative charging schedules in this work. In our design, termed mTS, the network area is divided into subdomains for designated WCVs. Each WCV schedules its charging scheduling path by responding to the interdependency of temporal and spatial correlations from different charging requests. Higher priorities are given to sensor requests with a mixture of closer charging deadlines and closer distances. We further analyze the system performance with an M/M/n/mTS queueing model. Our further study through simulations revealed that our scheme excels in successful charging rate, sensor survival rate, and other related performance metrics. Our field experiments further confirmed these results and showed some further interesting findings on different charging hardware and methods.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'99-107', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'inductive power transmission;queueing theory;wireless sensor networks;wireless rechargeable sensor networks;wireless power transfer technology;WRSNs;single wireless charging vehicle;multiple WCVs;on-line collaborative charging schedules;network area;WCV schedules;charging scheduling path;temporal correlations;spatial correlations;sensor requests;sensor survival rate;charging requests;charging deadlines;charging rate;charging hardware;M/M/n/mTS queueing model;Nickel;Wireless sensor networks;Scheduling;Task analysis;Measurement;Clustering algorithms;Wireless communication', 'ID': u'8486402', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486402', u'author': u'C. Lin and Z. Wang and J. Deng and L. Wang and J. Ren and G. Wu', u'title': u'mTS: Temporal-and Spatial-Collaborative Charging for Wireless Rechargeable Sensor Networks with Multiple Vehicles', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Benefited from recent breakthrough in wireless power transfer technology, the lifetime of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) can be prolonged significantly, generating the concept of wireless rechargeable sensor networks (WRSNs). While most recent works have been focusing on WRSNs with a single wireless charging vehicle (WCV), we investigate the issue of multiple WCVs' on-line collaborative charging schedules in this work. In our design, termed mTS, the network area is divided into subdomains for designated WCVs. Each WCV schedules its charging scheduling path by responding to the interdependency of temporal and spatial correlations from different charging requests. Higher priorities are given to sensor requests with a mixture of closer charging deadlines and closer distances. We further analyze the system performance with an M/M/n/mTS queueing model. Our further study through simulations revealed that our scheme excels in successful charging rate, sensor survival rate, and other related performance metrics. Our field experiments further confirmed these results and showed some further interesting findings on different charging hardware and methods.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'99-107', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'inductive power transmission;queueing theory;wireless sensor networks;wireless rechargeable sensor networks;wireless power transfer technology;WRSNs;single wireless charging vehicle;multiple WCVs;on-line collaborative charging schedules;network area;WCV schedules;charging scheduling path;temporal correlations;spatial correlations;sensor requests;sensor survival rate;charging requests;charging deadlines;charging rate;charging hardware;M/M/n/mTS queueing model;Nickel;Wireless sensor networks;Scheduling;Task analysis;Measurement;Clustering algorithms;Wireless communication', 'ID': u'8486402', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2004.1354585', u'author': u'M. L. Sichitiu', u'title': u'Cross-layer scheduling for power efficiency in wireless sensor networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Wireless sensor networks are considered the sensing technology of the future. Large numbers of untethered sensor nodes can be used for tracking small animals and targets, environmental monitoring, enforcing security perimeters, etc. A major problem for many sensor network applications is determining the most efficient way of conserving the energy of the power source. Some networks use batteries, while others suggest different methods of gathering energy (e.g., solar cells). Regardless of the powering method, energy conservation is of prime importance for sensor networks. The best way to conserve energy is to turn the sensor nodes off; however, since an inactive sensor node is no longer part of the network, the network can become disconnected. This creates a fundamental trade-off. In this paper, we propose a deterministic, schedule-based energy conservation scheme. In the proposed approach, time-synchronized sensors form on-off schedules that enable the sensors to be awake only when necessary. The schedule establishment is fully distributed and thus appropriate for large sensor networks. The performance of the proposed approach is evaluated through the use of simulations', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1740-1750 vol.3', u'year': u'2004', u'keywords': u'scheduling;synchronisation;wireless sensor networks;cross-layer scheduling;power efficiency;wireless sensor networks;untethered sensor nodes;schedule-based energy conservation scheme;time-synchronized sensors;on-off schedules;Intelligent networks;Wireless sensor networks;Batteries;Energy consumption;Sensor phenomena and characterization;Target tracking;Energy conservation;Sensor systems;Power cables;Transceivers', 'ID': u'1354585', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2004'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2016.7524504', u'author': u'T. Shi and S. Cheng and Z. Cai and J. Li', u'title': u'Adaptive connected dominating set discovering algorithm in energy-harvest sensor networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'A Wireless Sensor Network consists of a number of sensors. The energy of each sensor is limited which limits network lifetime. There are many existing energy efficiency algorithms to prolong network lifetime. Basically, there are two kinds of methods. One is energy-efficiency management, such as duty-cycling using virtual-backbones. The other one is energy provision, such as energy harvest from the environment. In this paper, we introduce a new problem, CDSEH, to combine these two methods together. We also propose a new standard to define the network lifetime of a WSN. We prove that the CDSEH problem is NP-Complete and propose two approximate algorithms accordingly. Extensive simulation results are shown to validate the performance of our algorithms.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2016', u'keywords': u'energy harvesting;wireless sensor networks;adaptive connected dominating set discovering algorithm;energy-harvest sensor networks;wireless sensor network;energy-efficiency management;duty cycling;virtual backbones;CDSEH;NP-complete;WSN;Wireless sensor networks;Approximation algorithms;Energy harvesting;Standards;Energy consumption;Distributed algorithms;Schedules', 'ID': u'7524504', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2016 - The 35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
