{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486345', u'author': u'L. Maccari and L. Ghiro and A. Guerrieri and A. Montresor and R. L. Cigno', u'title': u'On the Distributed Computation of Load Centrality and its Application to DV Routing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Centrality metrics are a key instrument for graph analysis and play a central role in many problems related to networking such as service placement, robustness analysis and network optimization. Betweenness centrality is one of the most popular and well-studied metric. While distributed algorithms to compute this metric exist, they are either approximated or limited to certain topologies (directed acyclic graphs or trees). Exact distributed algorithms for betweenness centrality are computationally complex, because its calculation requires the knowledge of all possible shortest paths within the graph. In this paper we consider load centrality, a metric that usually converges to betweenness, and we present the first distributed and exact algorithm to compute it. We prove its convergence, we estimate its complexity and we show it is directly applicable-with minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol based on Bellman-Ford. We finally implement it on top of the Babel routing protocol and we show that, exploiting centrality, we can significantly reduce Babel's convergence time upon node failure without increasing signalling overhead. Our contribution is relevant in the realm of wireless distributed networks, but the algorithm can be adopted in any distributed system where it is not possible, or computationally impractical, to reconstruct the whole network graph at each node and compute betweenness centrality with the classical approach based on Dijkstra's algorithm.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2582-2590', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u"computational complexity;directed graphs;distributed algorithms;routing protocols;minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol;Babel routing protocol;wireless distributed networks;distributed system;network graph;Dijkstra's algorithm;load centrality;DV routing;centrality metrics;key instrument;graph analysis;central role;networking;service placement;robustness analysis;network optimization;betweenness centrality;directed acyclic graphs;trees;exact distributed algorithms;convergence time;Measurement;Routing protocols;Topology;Routing;Network topology;Convergence;Indexes;Multi-hop networks;Mesh networks;Ad-hoc networks;Bellman-Ford;Load centrality;Distributed Algorithms;Failure recovery", 'ID': u'8486345', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486345', u'author': u'L. Maccari and L. Ghiro and A. Guerrieri and A. Montresor and R. L. Cigno', u'title': u'On the Distributed Computation of Load Centrality and its Application to DV Routing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Centrality metrics are a key instrument for graph analysis and play a central role in many problems related to networking such as service placement, robustness analysis and network optimization. Betweenness centrality is one of the most popular and well-studied metric. While distributed algorithms to compute this metric exist, they are either approximated or limited to certain topologies (directed acyclic graphs or trees). Exact distributed algorithms for betweenness centrality are computationally complex, because its calculation requires the knowledge of all possible shortest paths within the graph. In this paper we consider load centrality, a metric that usually converges to betweenness, and we present the first distributed and exact algorithm to compute it. We prove its convergence, we estimate its complexity and we show it is directly applicable-with minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol based on Bellman-Ford. We finally implement it on top of the Babel routing protocol and we show that, exploiting centrality, we can significantly reduce Babel's convergence time upon node failure without increasing signalling overhead. Our contribution is relevant in the realm of wireless distributed networks, but the algorithm can be adopted in any distributed system where it is not possible, or computationally impractical, to reconstruct the whole network graph at each node and compute betweenness centrality with the classical approach based on Dijkstra's algorithm.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2582-2590', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u"computational complexity;directed graphs;distributed algorithms;routing protocols;minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol;Babel routing protocol;wireless distributed networks;distributed system;network graph;Dijkstra's algorithm;load centrality;DV routing;centrality metrics;key instrument;graph analysis;central role;networking;service placement;robustness analysis;network optimization;betweenness centrality;directed acyclic graphs;trees;exact distributed algorithms;convergence time;Measurement;Routing protocols;Topology;Routing;Network topology;Convergence;Indexes;Multi-hop networks;Mesh networks;Ad-hoc networks;Bellman-Ford;Load centrality;Distributed Algorithms;Failure recovery", 'ID': u'8486345', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5934997', u'author': u'X. Li and N. Mitton and I. Simplot-Ryl and D. Simplot-Ryl', u'title': u'A novel family of geometric planar graphs for wireless ad hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We propose a radically new family of geometric graphs, i.e., Hypocomb, Reduced Hypocomb and Local Hypocomb. The first two are extracted from a complete graph; the last is extracted from a Unit Disk Graph (UDG). We analytically study their properties including connectivity, planarity and degree bound. All these graphs are connected (provided the original graph is connected) planar. Hypocomb has unbounded degree while Reduced Hypocomb and Local Hypocomb have maximum degree 6 and 8, respectively. To our knowledge, Local Hypocomb is the first strictly-localized, degree-bounded planar graph computed using merely 1-hop neighbor position information. We present a construction algorithm for these graphs and analyze its time complexity. Hypocomb family graphs are promising for wireless ad hoc networking. We report our numerical results on their average degree and their impact on FACE routing. We discuss their potential applications and some open problems.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1934-1942', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'ad hoc networks;graph theory;graphs;geometric planar graphs;wireless ad hoc networks;unit disk graph;degree-bounded planar graph;time complexity;Hypocomb family graphs;wireless ad hoc networking;FACE routing', 'ID': u'5934997', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2004.1354515', u'author': u'Xiang-Yang Li and Yu Weng and Peng-Jun Wan and Wen-Zhan Song and O. Frieder', u'title': u'Localized low-weight graph and its applications in wireless ad hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"We propose a new localized structure, namely, Incident MST and RNG Graph (IMRG), for topology control and broadcasting in wireless ad hoc networks. In the construction algorithm, each node first builds a modified relative neighborhood graph (RNG'), and then informs its one-hop neighbors its incident edges in RNG'. Each node then collects all its one-hop neighbors and the two-hop neighbors who have RNG edges to some of its one-hop neighbors, and builds an Euclidean minimum spanning tree of these nodes. Each node u keeps an edge uv only if uv is in the constructed minimum spanning tree. We analytically prove that the node degree of the IMRG is at most 6, it is connected and planar, and more importantly, the total edge length of the IMRG is within a constant factor of that of the minimum spanning tree. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first algorithm that can construct a structure with all these properties using small communication messages (at most 13n total messages, each with O(logn) bits) and small computation cost, where n is the number of wireless nodes. Test results are corroborated in the simulation study.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'431-442', u'year': u'2004', u'keywords': u'ad hoc networks;telecommunication network topology;graph theory;localized low-weight graph;wireless ad hoc networks;incident MST-RNG graph;IMRG;topology control;modified relative neighborhood graph;one-hop neighbors;Euclidean minimum spanning tree;Intelligent networks;Ad hoc networks;Mobile ad hoc networks;Network topology;Relays;Wireless networks;Costs;Application software;Computer science;Tree graphs', 'ID': u'1354515', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2004'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2009.5062214', u'author': u'Y. Bejerano and P. V. Koppol', u'title': u'Optimal Construction of Redundant Multicast Trees in Directed Graphs', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, we consider the problem of protection of multicast connections against single link or node failures using redundant multicast trees (RMTs). RMTs connect the source node of a multicast connection to all its destinations in such a way that in the event of a single link or node failure in the network, every destination node is still connected to the source node in at least one of the two trees. Construction of RMTs has been studied extensively for undirected graphs, but not for directed graphs. Computing RMTs in directed graphs can be important in networks, for instance, where link capacity is available in one direction but not the other. Also, none of the schemes proposed in previous work provide a solution for finding optimal (minimal-cost) RMTs even for weighted undirected graphs. We show that a whole class of earlier schemes that are based on the concept of ear-decomposition cannot find optimal redundant trees in certain network topologies. To our knowledge, we are the first to consider the problem of finding optimal RMTs in directed graphs. We present a novel efficient scheme for construction of optimal RMTs in networks modeled as weighted undirected as well as directed graphs.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2696-2700', u'year': u'2009', u'keywords': u'directed graphs;multicast communication;trees (mathematics);redundant multicast trees;directed graph;link capacity;Tree graphs;Peer to peer computing;Protection;Ear;Costs;Computer networks;Communications Society;USA Councils;Network topology;Multimedia communication', 'ID': u'5062214', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2009'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1999.751452', u'author': u'J. Chen and P. Druschel and D. Subramanian', u'title': u'A new approach to routing with dynamic metrics', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We present a new routing algorithm to compute paths within a network using dynamic link metrics. Dynamic link metrics are cost metrics that depend on a link\'s dynamic state, e.g., the congestion on the link. Our algorithm is destination-initiated: a destination initiates a global path computation to itself using dynamic link metrics. All other destinations that do not initiate this dynamic metric computation use paths that are calculated and maintained by a traditional routing algorithm using static link metrics. Analysis of Internet packet traces show that a high percentage of network traffic is destined for a small number of networks. Because our algorithm is destination-initiated, it achieves maximum performance at minimum cost when it only computes dynamic metric paths to these selected "hot" destination networks. This selective approach to route recomputation reduces many of the problems (principally route oscillations) associated with calculating all routes simultaneously. We compare the routing efficiency and end to-end performance of our algorithm against those of traditional algorithms using dynamic link metrics. The results of our experiments show that our algorithm can provide higher network performance at a significantly lower routing cost under conditions that arise in real networks. The effectiveness of the algorithm stems from the independent, time-staggered recomputation of important paths using dynamic metrics, allowing for splits in congested traffic that cannot be made by traditional routing algorithms.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'661-670 vol.2', u'year': u'1999', u'keywords': u'Internet;telecommunication network routing;routing;dynamic metrics;dynamic link metrics;cost metrics;dynamic state;congestion;destination;global path computation;Internet packet traces;network traffic;maximum performance;cost;hot destination networks;route recomputation;route oscillations;routing efficiency;end to-end performance;network performance;splits;Scout;Routing;Computer networks;Telecommunication traffic;Heuristic algorithms;Delay;ARPANET;Computer science;IP networks;Cost function;Internet', 'ID': u'751452', u'booktitle': u"IEEE INFOCOM '99. Conference on Computer Communications. Proceedings. Eighteenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. The Future is Now (Cat. No.99CH36320)"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2009.5061907', u'author': u'Y. Li and Y. Yang and X. Lu', u'title': u'Routing Metric Designs for Greedy, Face and Combined-Greedy-Face Routing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Different geographic routing protocols have different requirements on routing metric designs to ensure proper operation. Combining a wrong type of routing metric with a geographic routing protocol may produce unexpected results, such as geographic routing loops and unreachable nodes. In this paper, we propose a novel routing algebra system to investigate the compatibilities between routing metrics and three geographic routing protocols including greedy, face and combined-greedy- face routing. Four important algebraic properties, respectively named odd symmetry, transitivity, source independence and local minimum freeness, are defined in this algebra system. Based on these algebraic properties, the necessary and sufficient conditions for loop-free and delivery guaranteed routing are derived when greedy, face and combined-greedy-face routing serve as packet forwarding schemes or as path discovery algorithms respectively. Our work provides essential criterions for evaluating and designing geographic routing protocols.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'64-72', u'year': u'2009', u'keywords': u'greedy algorithms;routing protocols;unreachable nodes;geographic routing protocols;combined-Greedy-face routing;routing metric designs;Routing protocols;Algebra;Wireless networks;Design engineering;Global Positioning System;Switches;Communications Society;Computer science;USA Councils;Peer to peer computing', 'ID': u'5061907', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2009'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2005.1497895', u'author': u'P. Francois and O. Bonaventure', u'title': u'Avoiding transient loops during IGP convergence in IP networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'When the topology of an IP network changes due to a link failure or a link metric modification, the routing tables of all the routers must be updated. Each of those updates may cause transient loops. In this paper, we prove that by ordering the updates of the routing tables on the routers, it is possible to avoid all transient loops during the convergence of ISIS or OSPF after a planned link failure, an unplanned failure of a protected link and after a link metric modification. We then propose a protocol that allows the routers to order the update of their routing tables to avoid transient loops without requiring any complex computation.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'237-247 vol. 1', u'year': u'2005', u'keywords': u'IP networks;telecommunication links;telecommunication network topology;routing protocols;computer network reliability;telecommunication network planning;transient loops;IP network topology;link failure;link metric modification;routing tables;planned link failure;protected link;routing protocol;Convergence;Intelligent networks;IP networks;Protection;Network topology;Spine;Routing protocols;Telecommunication traffic;Computer networks;Costs', 'ID': u'1497895', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE 24th Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies.'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5934878', u'author': u'D. Dong and Y. Liu and X. Liao and X. Li', u'title': u'Fine-grained location-free planarization in wireless sensor networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Extracting planar graph from network topologies is of great importance for efficient protocol design in wireless ad hoc and sensor networks. Previous techniques of planar topology extraction are often based on ideal assumptions, such as UDG communication model and accurate node location measurements. To make these protocols work effectively in practice, we need extract a planar topology in a location-free and distributed manner with small stretch factor. Current location-free methods cannot provide any guarantee on the stretch factor of the constructed planar topologies. In this work, we present a fine-grained and location-free network planarization method. Compared with existing location-free planarization approaches, our method can extract a high-quality planar graph, called TPS (Topological Planar Simplification), from the communication graph using local connectivity information. TPS is proved to be a planar graph and has a constant stretch factor for a large class of network instances. We evaluate our design through extensive simulations and compare with the state-of-the-art approaches. The simulation results show that our method produces planar graphs with a small constant stretch factor, often less than 1.5.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1044-1052', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'graph theory;protocols;telecommunication network topology;wireless sensor networks;fine-grained location-free planarization;wireless sensor networks;planar graph;network topologies;protocol design;wireless ad hoc networks;planar topology extraction;UDG communication model;node location measurements;topological planar simplification;communication graph;local connectivity information;Tiles;Planarization;Network topology;Topology;Protocols;Ad hoc networks;Routing', 'ID': u'5934878', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2007.259', u'author': u'F. Zhang and H. Li and A. Jiang and J. Chen and P. Luo', u'title': u'Face Tracing Based Geographic Routing in Nonplanar Wireless Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Scalable and efficient routing is a main challenge in the deployment of large ad hoc wireless networks. An essential element of practical routing protocols is their accommodation of realistic network topologies. In this paper, we study geographic routing in general large wireless networks. Geographic routing is a celebrated idea that uses the locations of nodes to effectively support routing. However, to guarantee delivery, recent geographic routing algorithms usually resort to perimeter routing, which requires the removal of communication links to get a planar sub-network on which perimeter routing is performed. Localized network planarization requires the wireless network to be a unit-disk graph (UDG) or its close approximation. For networks that significantly deviate from the UDG model, a common case in practice, substantially more expensive and non-localized network planarization methods have to be used. How to make such methods efficiently adaptable to network dynamics, and how to avoid the removal of an excessive number of links that leads to lowered routing performance, are still open problems. To enable efficient geographic routing in general wireless networks, we present face-tracing based routing, a novel approach that routes the message in the faces of the network that are virtually embedded in a topological surface. Such faces are easily recognizable and constructible, and adaptively capture the important geometric features in wireless networks - in particular, holes, -thus leading to very efficient routing. We show by both analysis and si mulations that the face-tracing based routing is a highly scalable routing protocol that generates short routes, incurs low overhead, adapts quickly to network dynamics, and is very robust to variations in network models.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2243-2251', u'year': u'2007', u'keywords': u'ad hoc networks;graph theory;routing protocols;telecommunication network topology;face tracing based geographic routing algorithm;nonplanar wireless ad hoc network;routing protocols;realistic network topology;localized network planarization;unit-disk graph;Wireless networks;Planarization;Peer to peer computing;Semiconductor device modeling;Partitioning algorithms;Routing protocols;Communications Society;Computer science;Floods;Euclidean distance', 'ID': u'4215841', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2007 - 26th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
