{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8485826', u'author': u'X. Wang and J. Ma and Y. Miao and R. Yang and Y. Chang', u'title': u'EPSMD: An Efficient Privacy-Preserving Sensor Data Monitoring and Online Diagnosis System', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"With the development of Mobile Healthcare Monitoring Network (MHMN), patients' personal data collected by body sensors not only allows patients to monitor their health or make online pre-diagnosis but also enable clinicians to make proper decisions by utilizing data mining technique. However, the sensitive data privacy is still a major concern. In this paper, we first propose an Efficient Privacy-preserving Sensor data Monitoring and online Diagnosis (EPSMD) system for outsourced computing, then furnish an improved Multidimensional Range Query Technique (MRQT) to gain a broad range of applications in practice. In addition, a privacy-preserving naive Bayesian classifier based on MRQT is designed to protect patients' data in data mining and online diagnosis efficiently. Security analysis proves that patients' data privacy can be well protected without loss of data confidentiality, and performance evaluation demonstrates the efficiency and accuracy in data monitoring and disease pre-diagnosis, respectively.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'819-827', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'Bayes methods;data mining;data protection;diseases;health care;medical diagnostic computing;mobile computing;patient monitoring;pattern classification;query processing;Mobile Healthcare Monitoring Network;privacy-preserving naive Bayesian classifier;data confidentiality;disease pre-diagnosis;data mining;data privacy;privacy-preserving sensor data monitoring;online diagnosis system;Multidimensional Range Query Technique;patient data protection;EPSMD system;Monitoring;Cloud computing;Cryptography;Bayes methods;Data privacy;Privacy', 'ID': u'8485826', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8485826', u'author': u'X. Wang and J. Ma and Y. Miao and R. Yang and Y. Chang', u'title': u'EPSMD: An Efficient Privacy-Preserving Sensor Data Monitoring and Online Diagnosis System', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"With the development of Mobile Healthcare Monitoring Network (MHMN), patients' personal data collected by body sensors not only allows patients to monitor their health or make online pre-diagnosis but also enable clinicians to make proper decisions by utilizing data mining technique. However, the sensitive data privacy is still a major concern. In this paper, we first propose an Efficient Privacy-preserving Sensor data Monitoring and online Diagnosis (EPSMD) system for outsourced computing, then furnish an improved Multidimensional Range Query Technique (MRQT) to gain a broad range of applications in practice. In addition, a privacy-preserving naive Bayesian classifier based on MRQT is designed to protect patients' data in data mining and online diagnosis efficiently. Security analysis proves that patients' data privacy can be well protected without loss of data confidentiality, and performance evaluation demonstrates the efficiency and accuracy in data monitoring and disease pre-diagnosis, respectively.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'819-827', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'Bayes methods;data mining;data protection;diseases;health care;medical diagnostic computing;mobile computing;patient monitoring;pattern classification;query processing;Mobile Healthcare Monitoring Network;privacy-preserving naive Bayesian classifier;data confidentiality;disease pre-diagnosis;data mining;data privacy;privacy-preserving sensor data monitoring;online diagnosis system;Multidimensional Range Query Technique;patient data protection;EPSMD system;Monitoring;Cloud computing;Cryptography;Bayes methods;Data privacy;Privacy', 'ID': u'8485826', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1995.515915', u'author': u'N. F. Maxemchuk and S. Low', u'title': u'The use of communications networks to increase personal privacy', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Communications networks can separate as well as join information. This ability can be used to increase personal privacy in an environment where advances in technology makes it possible to collect and correlate increasing amounts of information about individuals. The tools and principles necessary to increase personal privacy are demonstrated by creating an anonymous credit card, in which a person's identity and purchases are separated, and a national health insurance plan, in which treatment, payment and an individual's identity are separated. An analysis technique is developed to determine how well the information is separated.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'504-512 vol.2', u'year': u'1995', u'keywords': u"data privacy;protocols;cryptography;credit transactions;medical information systems;telecommunication networks;communications networks;personal privacy;anonymous credit card;person's identity;purchases;national health insurance plan;treatment;payment;individual's identity;analysis technique;information separation;cryptographic protocol;Communication networks;Privacy;Credit cards;Assembly;Insurance;Costs;Pervasive computing;Advertising;Motion pictures;Cryptographic protocols", 'ID': u'515915', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings of INFOCOM'95"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8056990', u'author': u'A. Salam and M. C. Vuran', u'title': u'Smart underground antenna arrays: A soil moisture adaptive beamforming approach', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Current wireless underground (UG) communication techniques are limited by their achievable distance. In this paper, a novel framework for underground beamforming using adaptive antenna arrays is presented to extend communication distances for practical applications. Based on the analysis of propagation in wireless underground channel, a theoretical model is developed which uses soil moisture information to improve wireless underground communications performance. Array element in soil is analyzed empirically and impacts of soil type and soil moisture on return loss (RL) and resonant frequency are investigated. Accordingly, beam patterns are analyzed to communicate with underground and above ground devices. Depending on the incident angle, refraction from soil-air interface has adverse effects in the UG communications. It is shown that beam steering improves UG communications by providing a high-gain lateral wave. To this end, the angle, which enhances lateral wave, is shown to be a function of dielectric properties of the soil, soil moisture, and soil texture. Evaluations show that this critical angle varies from 0\xb0 to 16\xb0 and decreases with soil moisture. Accordingly, a soil moisture adaptive beamforming (SMABF) algorithm is developed for planar array structures and evaluated with different optimization approaches to improve UG communication performance.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'adaptive antenna arrays;array signal processing;beam steering;moisture;soil;underground communication;wireless underground channel;soil moisture information;underground ground devices;soil-air interface;soil moisture adaptive beamforming algorithm;planar array structures;UG communication performance;smart underground antenna arrays;soil moisture adaptive beamforming approach;underground beamforming;adaptive antenna arrays;Soil moisture;Antenna arrays;Array signal processing;Resonant frequency;Wireless communication', 'ID': u'8056990', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2010.5462147', u'author': u'J. Shi and R. Zhang and Y. Liu and Y. Zhang', u'title': u'PriSense: Privacy-Preserving Data Aggregation in People-Centric Urban Sensing Systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'People-centric urban sensing is a new paradigm gaining popularity. A main obstacle to its widespread deployment and adoption are the privacy concerns of participating individuals. To tackle this open challenge, this paper presents the design and evaluation of PriSense, a novel solution to privacy-preserving data aggregation in people-centric urban sensing systems. PriSense is based on the concept of data slicing and mixing and can support a wide range of statistical additive and non-additive aggregation functions such as Sum, Average, Variance, Count, Max/Min, Median, Histogram, and Percentile with accurate aggregation results. PriSense can support strong user privacy against a tunable threshold number of colluding users and aggregation servers. The efficacy and efficiency of PriSense are confirmed by thorough analytical and simulation results.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2010', u'keywords': u'data handling;data privacy;mobile computing;statistics;privacy preservation;data aggregation;people-centric urban sensing;PriSense;data slicing;data mixing;statistical additive function;non-additive aggregation function;Data privacy;Space technology;Aggregates;Distributed computing;Histograms;Sensor systems;Personal digital assistants;Communications Society;Computer architecture;Statistical distributions', 'ID': u'5462147', u'booktitle': u'2010 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2012.6195610', u'author': u'Fan Zhang and Li He and Wenbo He and Xue Liu', u'title': u'Data perturbation with state-dependent noise for participatory sensing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"The emerging participatory sensing applications rely on individuals' inputs which may be highly correlated with individuals' sensitive information or personal data. Hence, privacy protection is crucial to encourage individual participation for participatory sensing applications to generate trustworthy and high quality data. A widely used technique for privacy preservation is data perturbation, which adds noises to original data at the client side to protect individuals' privacy and allows the information server to reconstruct the statistics of the original data. In this paper, we find a serious vulnerability of existing data perturbation algorithms that an adversary may exploit to restore other users' private information (e.g., mean, variance and the distribution of original data) from the perturbed data, because all the participants share the same noise distribution. To overcome such vulnerability, we propose a privacy enhanced state-dependent perturbation (PESP), which assigns different noise distributions to individuals and the noises vary according to the state of real data. PESP is not only able to reconstruct community statistics, but also provides better privacy protection for individuals even when the adversaries acquire the perturbed data. We evaluate PESP through two participatory sensing applications: one analyzes the speed variations of vehicles on the road and the other computes the weight statistics for a particular diet. The results demonstrate the efficiency of the PESP in privacy preservation and reconstruction of the community statistics.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2246-2254', u'year': u'2012', u'keywords': u'data privacy;statistical analysis;statistical distributions;data perturbation;state-dependent noise;participatory sensing application;sensitive information;personal data;privacy protection;trustworthy data;high quality data;privacy preservation;user private information;mean;variance;data distribution;privacy enhanced state-dependent perturbation;noise distribution;community statistics reconstruction;vehicle speed variation;weight statistics;particular diet;Noise;Communities;Servers;Sensors;Estimation;Data models;Data privacy;Participatory Sensing;Privacy;Data Perturbation', 'ID': u'6195610', u'booktitle': u'2012 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5934987', u'author': u'F. Xu and Z. Qin and C. C. Tan and B. Wang and Q. Li', u'title': u'IMDGuard: Securing implantable medical devices with the external wearable guardian', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Recent studies have revealed security vulnerabilities in implantable medical devices (IMDs). Security design for IMDs is complicated by the requirement that IMDs remain operable in an emergency when appropriate security credentials may be unavailable. In this paper, we introduce IMDGuard, a comprehensive security scheme for heart-related IMDs to fulfill this requirement. IMDGuard incorporates two techniques tailored to provide desirable protections for IMDs. One is an ECG based key establishment without prior shared secrets, and the other is an access control mechanism resilient to adversary spoofing attacks. The security and performance of IMDGuard are evaluated on our prototype implementation.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1862-1870', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'access control;electrocardiography;prosthetics;IMDGuard;implantable medical devices;external wearable guardian;security design;heart-related IMD;ECG based key establishment;access control mechanism;Electrocardiography;Protocols;Feature extraction;Jamming;Authentication;Medical services', 'ID': u'5934987', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486266', u'author': u'Q. Huang and Z. Yang and Q. Zhang', u'title': u'Smart-U: Smart Utensils Know what You Eat', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Mobile sensing enables unobtrusive monitoring of our daily activities, sleep quality, breathing and heart rate, revolutionizing the health-care system. Dietary information is also a critical dimension for health management but has no convenient solution yet. In this paper, we ask whether we can track meal composition unobtrusively. We introduce Smart-U, a new utensil design that can recognize meal composition during the intake process, without user intervention or on-body instruments. Smart-U makes use of the fact that light spectra reflected by foods are dependent on the food ingredients. By analyzing the reflected light spectra, Smart-U can recognize what food is on top of the utensil. We describe the prototype design of Smart-U and the food recognition algorithm. We demonstrate that Smart-U can recognize 20 types of foods with 93 % accuracy. It can work robustly under different conditions. We envision that Smart-U can enable automatic food intake tracking, and provide personalized food suggestions based on nutrient recommendations and prior consumption. In the long run, Smart-U can contribute to the study of chronic diseases.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1439-1447', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'food products;health care;knowledge based systems;medical computing;mobile computing;mobile sensing;unobtrusive monitoring;heart rate;health-care system;dietary information;health management;meal composition;utensil design;intake process;food ingredients;reflected light spectra;food recognition algorithm;automatic food intake tracking;personalized food suggestions;Smart-U;Smart Utensils;Light emitting diodes;Monitoring;Photodiodes;Receivers;Prototypes;Photonics;Light sources', 'ID': u'8486266', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486250', u'author': u'J. Qian and F. Han and J. Hou and C. Zhang and Y. Wang and X. Li', u'title': u'Towards Privacy-Preserving Speech Data Publishing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Privacy-preserving data publishing has been a heated research topic in the last decade. Numerous ingenious attacks on users' privacy and defensive measures have been proposed for the sharing of various data, varying from relational data, social network data, spatiotemporal data, to images and videos. Speech data publishing, however, is still untouched in the literature. To fill this gap, we study the privacy risk in speech data publishing and explore the possibilities of performing data sanitization to achieve privacy protection while preserving data utility simultaneously. We formulate this optimization problem in a general fashion and present thorough quantifications of privacy and utility. We analyze the sophisticated impacts of possible sanitization methods on privacy and utility, and also design a novel method - key term perturbation for speech content sanitization. A heuristic algorithm is proposed to personalize the sanitization for speakers to restrict their privacy leak (p-leak limit) while minimizing the utility loss. The simulations of linkage attacks and sanitization on real datasets validate the necessity and feasibility of this work.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1079-1087', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'data protection;minimisation;risk management;security of data;speech content sanitization;privacy leak;privacy-preserving speech data publishing;privacy risk;data sanitization;privacy protection;data utility;p-leak limit;utility loss minimization;linkage attacks;ingenious attacks;heuristic algorithm;users privacy;Data privacy;Privacy;Couplings;Publishing;Spectrogram;Computer science;Optimization', 'ID': u'8486250', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486265', u'author': u'X. Gong and Q. Hua and L. Qian and D. Yu and H. Jin', u'title': u'Communication-Efficient and Privacy-Preserving Data Aggregation without Trusted Authority', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Privacy-preserving data aggregation has been extensively studied in the past decades. However, most of these works target at specific aggregation functions such as additive or multiplicative aggregation functions. Meanwhile, they assume there exists a trusted authority which facilitates the keys and other information distribution. In this paper, we aim to devise a communication efficient and privacy-preserving protocol that can exactly compute arbitrary data aggregation functions without trusted authority. In our model, there exist one untrusted aggregator and n participants. We assume that all communication channels are insecure and are subject to eavesdropping attacks. Our protocol is designed under the semi-honest model, and it can also tolerate k (k \u2264 n-2) collusive adversaries. Our protocol achieves (n - k) -source anonymity. That is, for the source of each collected data aparting from the colluded participants, what the aggregator learns is only from one of the (n - k) non-colluded ones. Compared with recent work [1] that computes arbitrary aggregation functions by collecting all the participants' data using the trusted authority, our protocol increases merely by at most a factor of O(([logn/loglogn])2) in terms of computation time and communication cost. The key of our protocol is that we have designed algorithms that can efficiently assign unique sequence numbers to each participant without the trusted authority.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1250-1258', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'data aggregation;data privacy;protocols;security of data;trusted authority;privacy-preserving data aggregation;privacy-preserving protocol;untrusted aggregator;communication channels;aggregation functions;arbitrary data aggregation functions;eavesdropping attacks;communication-efficient data aggregation;semihonest model;Protocols;Data aggregation;Computational modeling;Privacy;Additives;Encryption', 'ID': u'8486265', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
