{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2002.1019384', u'author': u'Wonyong Yoon and Dongman Lee and Hee Yong Youn and Seungik Lee and Seok Joo Koh', u'title': u'A combined group/tree approach for scalable many-to-many reliable multicast', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We present the design, implementation, and performance analysis of group-aided multicast (GAM), a scalable many-to-many reliable multicast transport protocol. GAM achieves high quality ACK trees while keeping the tree maintenance overhead reasonably low in the presence of dynamic group membership and route changes. It is supported by a group configuration mechanism organizing the members in a multicast session into multiple small groups and a tree configuration mechanism maintaining logical trees according to the underlying multicast routing trees. With the two mechanisms, GAM builds a two-layer hierarchy of multi-level logical trees from which high-quality per-source ACK trees are generated. Simulation results show that the GAM protocol is more scalable than a NACK suppression protocol in terms of processing time for request/repair messages and recovery latency.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1336-1345 vol.3', u'year': u'2002', u'keywords': u'trees (mathematics);telecommunication network routing;multicast protocols;routing protocols;many-to-many multicast;combined group/tree approach;group-aided multicast;multicast protocol;transport protocol;ACK trees;dynamic group membership;dynamic route changes;multicast routing trees;logical trees;NACK suppression protocol;reliable multicast;Multicast protocols;Routing;Maintenance;Communications technology;Transport protocols;Organizing;Delay;Scalability;Throughput;Bandwidth', 'ID': u'1019384', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings.Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486324', u'author': u'M. Noormohammadpour and C. S. Raghavendra and S. Kandula and S. Rao', u'title': u'QuickCast: Fast and Efficient Inter-Datacenter Transfers Using Forwarding Tree Cohorts', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Several organizations have built multiple datacenters connected via dedicated wide area networks over which large inter-datacenter transfers take place. Since many such transfers move the same data from one source to multiple destinations, using multicast forwarding trees can reduce bandwidth needs and improve completion times. However, using a single forwarding tree per transfer can lead to poor performance as the slowest receiver dictates the completion time for all receivers. Using multiple forwarding trees per transfer alleviates this concern-the average receiver could finish early; however, if done naively, bandwidth usage would also increase and it is apriori unclear how best to partition receivers, how to construct the multiple trees and how to determine the rate and schedule of flows on these trees. This paper presents QuickCast, a first solution to these problems. Using simulations on real-world network topologies, we see that QuickCast can speed up the average receiver's completion time by as much as 10\xd7 while only using 1.04\xd7 more bandwidth; further, the completion time for all receivers also improves by as much as faster at high loads. Thereby, while some implementation challenges remain, we advocate using a cohort of forwarding trees.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'225-233', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'computer centres;multicast communication;telecommunication network topology;telecommunication scheduling;trees (mathematics);wide area networks;QuickCast;efficient inter-datacenter transfers;forwarding tree cohorts;multiple datacenters;dedicated wide area networks;multiple destinations;multicast forwarding trees;completion time;single forwarding tree;multiple forwarding trees;bandwidth usage;partition receivers;multiple trees;real-world network topologies;Receivers;Bandwidth;Optimization;Topology;Wide area networks;Network topology;Software Defined WAN;Datacenter;Scheduling;Completion Times;Replication', 'ID': u'8486324', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486324', u'author': u'M. Noormohammadpour and C. S. Raghavendra and S. Kandula and S. Rao', u'title': u'QuickCast: Fast and Efficient Inter-Datacenter Transfers Using Forwarding Tree Cohorts', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Several organizations have built multiple datacenters connected via dedicated wide area networks over which large inter-datacenter transfers take place. Since many such transfers move the same data from one source to multiple destinations, using multicast forwarding trees can reduce bandwidth needs and improve completion times. However, using a single forwarding tree per transfer can lead to poor performance as the slowest receiver dictates the completion time for all receivers. Using multiple forwarding trees per transfer alleviates this concern-the average receiver could finish early; however, if done naively, bandwidth usage would also increase and it is apriori unclear how best to partition receivers, how to construct the multiple trees and how to determine the rate and schedule of flows on these trees. This paper presents QuickCast, a first solution to these problems. Using simulations on real-world network topologies, we see that QuickCast can speed up the average receiver's completion time by as much as 10\xd7 while only using 1.04\xd7 more bandwidth; further, the completion time for all receivers also improves by as much as faster at high loads. Thereby, while some implementation challenges remain, we advocate using a cohort of forwarding trees.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'225-233', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'computer centres;multicast communication;telecommunication network topology;telecommunication scheduling;trees (mathematics);wide area networks;QuickCast;efficient inter-datacenter transfers;forwarding tree cohorts;multiple datacenters;dedicated wide area networks;multiple destinations;multicast forwarding trees;completion time;single forwarding tree;multiple forwarding trees;bandwidth usage;partition receivers;multiple trees;real-world network topologies;Receivers;Bandwidth;Optimization;Topology;Wide area networks;Network topology;Software Defined WAN;Datacenter;Scheduling;Completion Times;Replication', 'ID': u'8486324', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1996.493090', u'author': u'J. C. Lin and S. Paul', u'title': u'RMTP: a reliable multicast transport protocol', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"This paper describes the design and implementation of a multi-cast transport protocol called RMTP. RMTP provides sequenced, lossless delivery of bulk data from one sender to a group of receivers. RMTP achieves reliability by using a packet-based selective repeat retransmission scheme, in which each acknowledgment (ACK) packet carries a sequence number and a bitmap. ACK handling is based on a multi-level hierarchical approach, in which the receivers are grouped into a hierarchy of local regions, with a designated receiver (DR) in each local region. Receivers in each local region periodically send ACKs to their corresponding DR, DRs send ACKs to the higher-level DRs, until the DRs in the highest level send ACKs to the sender, thereby avoiding the ACK-implosion problem. DRs cache received data and respond to retransmission requests of the receivers in their corresponding local regions, thereby decreasing end-to-end latency and improving resource usage. This paper also provides the measurements of RMTP's performance with receivers located at various sites in the Internet.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1414-1424 vol.3', u'year': u'1996', u'keywords': u'transport protocols;data communication;packet switching;telecommunication network routing;telecommunication congestion control;Internet;RMTP;reliable multicast transport protocol;lossless delivery;MBone technology;packet-based selective repeat retransmission scheme;acknowledgment packet;sequence number;ACK handling;multi-level hierarchical approach;designated receiver;ACK-implosion problem;end-to-end latency;resource usage;performance;Internet;Multicast protocols;Transport protocols;Delay;Application software;Real time systems;Hospitals;Joining processes;Forward error correction;Quality of service;Costs', 'ID': u'493090', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM '96. Conference on Computer Communications"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2000.832255', u'author': u'I. Rhee and S. R. Joshi and M. Lee and S. Muthukrishnan and V. Ozdemir', u'title': u'Layered multicast recovery', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We study the problem of localizing repair packets when packets are lost during multicasts. When repair packets are multicast, a highly lossy receiver may swamp the entire multicast "group" with duplicate repair packets thereby wasting bandwidth; thus, the protocols need repair locality. We present a multicast layering scheme where the sender proactively distributes FEC repair packets among multiple multicast groups. Each receiver can selectively tune in to a subset of these multicast groups to obtain packets close in number to what it needs. We develop an efficient algorithm that dynamically determines the optimal distribution of FEC repair packets to a given (small constant) number of multicast groups. The running time of this algorithm is independent of the number of receivers in the multicast session, and is hence highly scalable. However, the optimal algorithm requires the knowledge of the FEC repair requirements of all the receivers in the multicast group, and hence is subject to the implosion problem. To handle the implosion problem, we develop an heuristic algorithm that achieves repair locality very similar to that of the optimal algorithm, but does not require as much global knowledge. Our multicast layering scheme can be integrated into known reliable multicast protocols to make them more scalable. For concreteness, we focus on: (i) singly scoped SRM, (ii) hierarchically scoped SRM, and (iii) a tree-based reliable multicasting protocol RMTP, and present combined protocols incorporating our solutions into each of them. Simulation experiments show that our solutions can substantially enhance the scalability of these reliable multicast protocols.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'805-813 vol.2', u'year': u'2000', u'keywords': u'protocols;multicast communication;forward error correction;optimisation;tree data structures;telecommunication network reliability;layered multicast recovery;repair packet localization;FEC;multiple multicast groups;optimal distribution;scalable algorithm;optimal algorithm;implosion problem;heuristic algorithm;reliable multicast protocols;singly scoped SRM;hierarchically scoped SRM;tree-based reliable multicasting protocol;RMTP;simulation;scalability;Multicast protocols;Multicast algorithms;Heuristic algorithms;Computer science;Bandwidth;Scalability;Large-scale systems;Engineering profession;Casting', 'ID': u'832255', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2000. Conference on Computer Communications. Nineteenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (Cat. No.00CH37064)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.662908', u'author': u'S. K. Kasera and J. Kurose and D. Towsley', u'title': u'A comparison of server-based and receiver-based local recovery approaches for scalable reliable multicast', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Local recovery approaches for reliable multicast have the potential to provide significant performance gains in terms of reduced bandwidth and delay, and higher system throughput. In this paper we examine two local recovery approaches-one server-based, and the other receiver-based, and compare their performance. The server-based approach makes use of specially designated hosts, called repair servers, co-located with routers inside the network. In the receiver-based approach, only the end hosts (sender and receivers) are involved in error recovery. Using analytical models, we first show that the two local recovery approaches yield significantly higher protocol throughput and lower bandwidth usage than an approach that does not use local recovery. Next, we demonstrate that server-based local recovery yields higher protocol throughput and lower bandwidth usage than receiver-based local recovery when the repair servers have processing power slightly higher than that of a receiver and several hundred kilobytes of buffer per multicast session.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'988-995 vol.3', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'protocols;receiver-based local recovery;server-based local recovery;scalable reliable multicast;local recovery approaches;specially designated hosts;repair servers;error recovery;end host;analytical models;protocol throughput;lower bandwidth usage;routers;Throughput;Bandwidth;Network servers;Multicast protocols;Performance gain;Delay systems;Computer science;Analytical models;File servers;Scattering', 'ID': u'662908', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1993.253241', u'author': u'W. -. Chen and C. Y. Tang and H. Ural', u'title': u'Minimum-cost synchronizable test sequence generation via the duplexU digraph', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'A test sequence generation method is proposed for testing the conformance of a protocol implementation to its specification in a remote testing system, taking both external synchronization and input/output operation costs into consideration. The method consists of a set of transformation rules that constructs a duplexU digraph from a given finite state machine (FSM) representation of a protocol specification and a heuristic algorithm that finds a rural postman tour in the duplexU digraph to generate a synchronizable test sequence utilizing multiple UIO sequences. If the protocol satisfies a specific property, the heuristic algorithm yields a minimum-cost test sequence. The X.25 DTE and ISO Class 0 Transport protocols are proved to possess this specific property. otherwise, the heuristic algorithm yields a test sequence whose cost is within a bound from the cost of the minimum-cost test sequence. The bound for the test sequence generated from the Q.931 Network-side protocol is shown to be the cost sum of an input/output operation and an external synchronization operation.<<ETX>>', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'128-135 vol.1', u'year': u'1993', u'keywords': u'conformance testing;finite state machines;graph theory;protocols;synchronisation;minimum-cost synchronisable test sequence generation;conformance testing;FSM representation;X.25 DTE protocol;ISO Class 0 Transport protocol;duplexU digraph;remote testing system;external synchronization;input/output operation costs;transformation rules;finite state machine;protocol specification;heuristic algorithm;rural postman tour;multiple UIO sequences;Q.931 Network-side protocol;Costs;System testing;Heuristic algorithms;Computer science;Automata;Transport protocols;Councils;Bridges;IEEE Policy and Procedures', 'ID': u'253241', u'booktitle': u"IEEE INFOCOM '93 The Conference on Computer Communications, Proceedings"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1988.12902', u'author': u'M. Barbeau and B. Sarikaya', u'title': u'A computer-aided design tool for protocol testing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'A computer-aided design tool is presented for designing test for protocols. CAD-PT accepts a formal specification in Estelle of the protocol and generates control and dataflow graphs on a graphic workstation. The tool is explained component-by-component, using a simplified ISO Class 2 transport protocol as an example.<<ETX>>', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'86-95', u'year': u'1988', u'keywords': u'CAD;protocols;computer-aided design tool;protocol testing;formal specification;Estelle;dataflow graphs;graphic workstation;ISO Class 2 transport protocol;Design automation;Protocols;Testing;Open systems;Formal specifications;Flow graphs;Standardization;Application software;ISDN;Data analysis', 'ID': u'12902', u'booktitle': u"IEEE INFOCOM '88,Seventh Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communcations Societies. Networks: Evolution or Revolution?"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1994.337659', u'author': u'S. T. Chanson and Jinsong Zhu', u'title': u'Automatic protocol test suite derivation', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, an automatic protocol test case generator that generates both test sequence and test data is presented. The underlying model is an extended finite state machine (EFSM) and Estelle is used as the formal description language. First, test sequences are generated using a combined control and data flow testing method. A set of path conditions associated with each test sequence is obtained using symbolic execution techniques. By solving the path conditions as a group of constraints, test data are then automatically generated. A prototype system implementing the above procedures has been built. The system has been used to generate test cases for real protocols such as TP0, FDDI and LAPB, and has been integrated in the UBC protocol testing environment.<<ETX>>', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'792-799 vol.2', u'year': u'1994', u'keywords': u'protocols;conformance testing;finite state machines;formal specification;automatic test equipment;automatic protocol test suite;automatic protocol test case generator;test sequence;test data;extended finite state machine;EFSM;Estelle;formal description language;data flow testing method;path conditions;symbolic execution techniques;prototype system;TP0;FDDI;LAPB;UBC protocol testing environment;Protocols;Automatic testing;System testing;Automatic control;Computer science;Automatic generation control;Prototypes;FDDI;Humans;Error correction', 'ID': u'337659', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings of INFOCOM '94 Conference on Computer Communications"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.662906', u'author': u'J. Nonnenmacher and M. Lacher and M. Jung and E. W. Biersack and G. Carle', u'title': u'How bad is reliable multicast without local recovery?', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We examine the impact of the loss recovery mechanisms on the performance of a reliable multicast protocol. Approaches to reliable multicast can be divided into two major classes: source-based recovery, and distributed recovery. For both classes we consider the state of the art: for source-based recovery, a type 2 hybrid ARQ scheme with parity retransmission; for distributed recovery, a scheme with local multicast retransmission and local feedback processing. We further show the benefits of combining the two approaches and consider a type 2 hybrid ARQ scheme with local retransmission. The schemes are compared for up to 10/sup 6/ receivers under different loss scenarios with respect to network bandwidth usage and completion time of a reliable transfer. We show that the protocol based on local retransmissions via type 2 hybrid ARQ performs best for bandwidth and latency. For networks, where local retransmission is not possible, we show that a protocol based on type 2 hybrid ARQ comes close to the performance of a protocol with local retransmissions.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'972-979 vol.3', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'automatic repeat request;reliable multicast;local recovery;loss recovery mechanisms;performance;reliable multicast protocol;source-based recovery;distributed recovery;type 2 hybrid ARQ scheme;parity retransmission;multicast retransmission;local feedback processing;loss scenarios;network bandwidth usage;completion time;reliable transfer;Density estimation robust algorithm;Multicast protocols;Automatic repeat request;Telecommunication network reliability;Bandwidth;Forward error correction;Feedback;Delay;Error correction;Application software', 'ID': u'662906', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
