{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5935154', u'author': u'L. Yang and J. Han and Y. Qi and C. Wang and T. Gu and Y. Liu', u'title': u'Season: Shelving interference and joint identification in large-scale RFID systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Prior work on anti-collision for Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) systems usually schedule adjacent readers to exclusively interrogate tags for avoiding reader collisions. Although such a pattern can effectively deal with collisions, the lack of readers' collaboration wastes numerous time on the scheduling process and dramatically degrades the throughput of identification. Even worse, the tags within the overlapped interrogation regions of adjacent readers (termed as contentious tags), even if the number of such tags is very small, introduce a significant delay to the identification process. In this paper, we propose a new strategy for collision resolution. First, we shelve the collisions and identify the tags that do not involve reader collisions. Second, we perform a joint identification, in which adjacent readers collaboratively identify the contentious tags. In particular, we find that neighboring readers can cause a new type of collisions, cross-tag-collision, which may impede the joint identification. We propose a protocol stack, named Season, to undertake the tasks in two phases and solve the cross-tag-collision. We conduct extensive simulations and preliminary implementation to demonstrate the efficiency of our scheme. The results show that our scheme can achieve above 6 times improvement on the identification throughput in a large-scale dense reader environment.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'3092-3100', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'radiofrequency identification;radiofrequency interference;shelving interference;joint identification;RFID systems;radio frequency identification systems;anticollision;scheduling process;collision resolution;cross-tag-collision;Probes;RFID;Tag Collision;Reader Collision;Season', 'ID': u'5935154', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057160', u'author': u'S. Zhang and X. Liu and J. Wang and J. Cao', u'title': u'Tag size profiling in multiple reader RFID systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, we study the tag size profiling (TSP) problem in RFID systems with multiple readers, which is to estimate the number of tags in every subregion in the system covered by different set of readers. The TSF problem is vitally important to reader scheduling and many other related operations in large scale multi-reader RFID systems. To our knowledge, however, it is not well solved in previous researches. We propose a novel approach to the TSF problem. The key idea is to treat the size of subregions as variables and construct a linear system in these variables to solve them. We theoretically prove that for any multi-reader RFID system, a linear system that can be used to uniquely solve the variables corresponding to the subregion sizes can always be constructed. We then propose a time-efficient algorithm that uses two heuristics to quickly find enough linearly independent equations to construct the linear system. Extensive simulation results show that the proposed approach achieves very high accuracy. When the estimation results of individual readers contain 5% errors, our approach achieves median estimation error of smaller than 0.02 and 90-percentile estimation error of smaller than 0.04 in large systems containing more than one hundred readers.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'radiofrequency identification;telecommunication scheduling;multiple reader RFID systems;tag size profiling problem;multiple readers;TSF problem;reader scheduling;scale multireader RFID systems;linear system;multireader RFID system;subregion sizes;linearly independent equations;individual readers;TSP;Conferences;Radio Frequency Identification;Multiple Readers;Reader Scheduling;RFID Estimation', 'ID': u'8057160', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057160', u'author': u'S. Zhang and X. Liu and J. Wang and J. Cao', u'title': u'Tag size profiling in multiple reader RFID systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, we study the tag size profiling (TSP) problem in RFID systems with multiple readers, which is to estimate the number of tags in every subregion in the system covered by different set of readers. The TSF problem is vitally important to reader scheduling and many other related operations in large scale multi-reader RFID systems. To our knowledge, however, it is not well solved in previous researches. We propose a novel approach to the TSF problem. The key idea is to treat the size of subregions as variables and construct a linear system in these variables to solve them. We theoretically prove that for any multi-reader RFID system, a linear system that can be used to uniquely solve the variables corresponding to the subregion sizes can always be constructed. We then propose a time-efficient algorithm that uses two heuristics to quickly find enough linearly independent equations to construct the linear system. Extensive simulation results show that the proposed approach achieves very high accuracy. When the estimation results of individual readers contain 5% errors, our approach achieves median estimation error of smaller than 0.02 and 90-percentile estimation error of smaller than 0.04 in large systems containing more than one hundred readers.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'radiofrequency identification;telecommunication scheduling;multiple reader RFID systems;tag size profiling problem;multiple readers;TSF problem;reader scheduling;scale multireader RFID systems;linear system;multireader RFID system;subregion sizes;linearly independent equations;individual readers;TSP;Conferences;Radio Frequency Identification;Multiple Readers;Reader Scheduling;RFID Estimation', 'ID': u'8057160', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2014.6847935', u'author': u'L. Kong and L. He and Y. Gu and M. Wu and T. He', u'title': u'A Parallel Identification Protocol for RFID systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Nowadays, RFID systems have been widely deployed for applications such as supply chain management and inventory control. One of their most essential operations is to swiftly identify individual tags to distinguish their associated objects. Most existing solutions identify tags sequentially in the temporal dimension to avoid signal collisions, whose performance degrades significantly as the system scale increases. In this paper, we propose a <i>Parallel Identification Protocol</i> (PIP) for RFID systems, which achieves the parallel identification paradigm and is compatible with current RFID devices. Uniquely, PIP encodes the tag ID into a specially designed pattern and thus greatly facilitates the reader to correctly and effectively recover them from collisions. Furthermore, we analytically investigate its performance and provide guidance on determining its optimal settings. Extensive simulations show that PIP reduces the identification delay by about 25%-50% when compared with the standard method in EPC C1G2 and the state-of-the-art solutions.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'154-162', u'year': u'2014', u'keywords': u'encoding;protocols;radiofrequency identification;telecommunication congestion control;parallel identification protocol;supply chain management;inventory control;individual tag identification;temporal dimension;signal collision avoidance;PIP;RFID device compatibility;optimal setting;identification delay reduction;EPC C1G2;radio frequency identification;Radiofrequency identification;Protocols;Encoding;Delays;Conferences;Computers;Standards', 'ID': u'6847935', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2014 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2016.7524575', u'author': u'C. Wang and L. Xie and W. Wang and T. Xue and S. Lu', u'title': u'Moving tag detection via physical layer analysis for large-scale RFID systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In a number of RFID-based applications such as logistics monitoring, the RFID systems are deployed to monitor a large number of RFID tags. They are usually required to track the movement of all tags in a real-time approach, since the tagged-goods are moved in and out in a rather frequent approach. However, a typical cycle of tag inventory in COTS RFID system usually takes tens of seconds to interrogate hundreds of RFID tags. This hinders the system to track the movement of all tags in time. One critical issue in such type of tag monitoring is to efficiently distinguish the motion status of all tags, i.e., stationary or moving. According to the motion status of different tags, the state-of-art localization schemes can further track those moving tags, instead of tracking all tags. In this paper, we propose a real-time approach to detect the moving tags in the monitoring area, which is a fundamental premise to support tracking the movement of all tags. We achieve the time efficiency by decoding collisions from the physical layer. Instead of using the EPC ID, which cannot be decoded in collision slots, we are able to extract two kinds of physical-layer features of RFID tags, i.e., the phase profile and the backscatter link frequency, to distinguish among different tags in different positions. By resolving the two physical-layer features from the tag collisions, we are able to derive the motion status of multiple tags simultaneously, and greatly improve the time-efficiency. Experiment result shows that our solution can accurately detect the moving tags while reducing 80% of inventory time compared with the state-of-art solutions.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2016', u'keywords': u'decoding;radiofrequency identification;moving tag detection;physical layer analysis;large-scale RFID systems;RFID tags;tag inventory;COTS RFID system;motion status;decoding collisions;Feature extraction;Monitoring;Tracking;Real-time systems;RFID tags;Backscatter;RFID;Collision Decoding;Tag Inventory', 'ID': u'7524575', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2016 - The 35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2010.5461949', u'author': u'L. Xie and B. Sheng and C. C. Tan and H. Han and Q. Li and D. Chen', u'title': u'Efficient Tag Identification in Mobile RFID Systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper we consider how to efficiently identify tags on the moving conveyor. Considering conditions like the path loss and multi-path effect in realistic settings, we first propose a probabilistic model for RFID tag identification. Based on this model, we propose efficient solutions to identify moving RFID tags, according to the fixed-path mobility on the conveyor. A dynamic program based solution and an adaptive solution are proposed to select optimized frame sizes during the query cycles. Simulation results indicate that by leveraging the probabilistic model our solutions can achieve much better performance than using parameters for the ideal propagation situations.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2010', u'keywords': u'dynamic programming;probability;radiofrequency identification;efficient tag identification;mobile RFID systems;moving conveyor;path loss;multipath effect;probabilistic model;RFID tag identification;fixed-path mobility;dynamic program;adaptive solution;optimized frame sizes;Radiofrequency identification;RFID tags;Belts;Media Access Protocol;Intrusion detection;Supply chains;Communications Society;Mobile computing;Laboratories;Computer science', 'ID': u'5461949', u'booktitle': u'2010 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2012.6195603', u'author': u'Weiping Zhu and Jiannong Cao and Yi Xu and Lei Yang and Junjun Kong', u'title': u'Fault-tolerant RFID reader localization based on passive RFID tags', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'With the growing use of RFID-based devices, RFID reader localization attracts increasing attentions recently. In this technology, an object carrying an RFID reader is located by communicating with some passive RFID tags deployed in the environment. One important problem of RFID reader localization is that frequent occurred RFID faults affect localization accuracy. Specifically, complex localization environment (may include metal, water, obstacles, etc.) makes some tags fail to communicate with the reader, which makes the localization result deviate from the real location. Existing approaches can tolerate the faults occurred in individual tags and lasting for a short time period, but suffer serious localization error if the faults exist in a large region and last for a long time period. Moreover, existing approaches do not provide quality measurement of a localization result. In this paper, we propose an effective fault-tolerant RFID reader localization approach suitable for the above-mentioned situations, and illustrate how to measure the quality of a localization result. We have taken extensive simulations and implemented an RFID-based localization system. In both cases, our solution outperforms existing approaches in localization accuracy and can provide additional quality information.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2183-2191', u'year': u'2012', u'keywords': u'fault tolerance;radiofrequency identification;radiofrequency identification;fault tolerant RFID reader localization;passive RFID tags;RFID faults;localization accuracy;localization error;Indexes;Accuracy;Passive RFID tags;Redundancy;Programming;Metals', 'ID': u'6195603', u'booktitle': u'2012 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2010.5461944', u'author': u'H. Han and B. Sheng and C. C. Tan and Q. Li and W. Mao and S. Lu', u'title': u'Counting RFID Tags Efficiently and Anonymously', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) technology has attracted much attention due to its variety of applications, e.g., inventory control and object tracking. One important problem in RFID systems is how to quickly estimate the number of distinct tags without reading each tag individually. This problem plays a crucial role in many real-time monitoring and privacy-preserving applications. In this paper, we present an efficient and anonymous scheme for tag population estimation. This scheme leverages the position of the first reply from a group of tags in a frame. Results from mathematical analysis and extensive simulation demonstrate that our scheme outperforms other protocols proposed in the previous work.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2010', u'keywords': u'data privacy;mathematical analysis;radiofrequency identification;telecommunication security;RFID tags counting;radio frequency identification technology;real-time monitoring application;privacy-preserving application;anonymous scheme;tag population estimation;mathematical analysis;RFID tags;Radiofrequency identification;Protocols;Intrusion detection;USA Councils;Inventory control;Analytical models;Remote monitoring;Communications Society;Educational institutions', 'ID': u'5461944', u'booktitle': u'2010 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8056987', u'author': u'H. Aantjes and A. Y. Majid and P. Pawe\u0142czak and J. Tan and A. Parks and J. R. Smith', u'title': u'Fast downstream to many (computational) RFIDs', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We present Stork - an extension of the EPC C1G2 protocol allowing streaming of data to multiple Computational Radio Frequency IDentification tags (CRFIDs) simultaneously at up to 20 times faster than the prior state of the art. Stork introduces downstream attributes never before seen in (C)RFIDs: (i) fast feedback for CRFID downstream verification based on the internal EPC C1G2 memory check command - which we analytically and experimentally show to be the best possible downstream verification process based on EPC C1G2; (ii) ability to perform multi-CRFID transfer - which in our experiments speeds up downstream by more than two times compared to sequential transmission; and (iii) the use of compressed data streams - which improves firmware reprogramming times by up to 10% at large reader-to-CRFID distances.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'cryptographic protocols;data compression;firmware;program verification;radiofrequency identification;fast downstream;Stork;EPC C1G2 protocol allowing;multiple Computational Radio Frequency IDentification tags;fast feedback;CRFID downstream verification;internal EPC C1G2 memory check command;multiCRFID transfer;compressed data streams;firmware reprogramming times;Protocols;Radiofrequency identification;Robustness;Software;Payloads', 'ID': u'8056987', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6566731', u'author': u'C. Zhang and X. Liu', u'title': u'HBaseMQ: A distributed message queuing system on clouds with HBase', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Message queuing systems can be used to support a plethora of fundamental services in distributed systems. This paper presents HBaseMQ, the first distributed message queuing system based on bare-bones HBase. HBaseMQ directly inherits HBase's properties such as scalability and fault tolerance, enabling HBase users to rapidly instantiate a message queuing system with no extra program deployment or modification to HBase. As a result, HBaseMQ effectively enhances the data processing capability of an existing HBase installation. HBaseMQ supports reliable and total order message delivery with \u201cat least once\u201d or \u201cat most once\u201d message delivery guarantees with no limit on message size. Furthermore, HBaseMQ provides atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability on any operation over messages.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'40-44', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'cloud computing;fault tolerant computing;message passing;queueing theory;HBaseMQ;distributed message queuing system;bare-bones HBase;fault tolerance;scalability;HBase properties;data processing capability;HBase installation;total order message delivery;at least once message delivery guarantee;at most once message delivery guarantee;Protocols;Scalability;Libraries;Fault tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Receivers;Distributed message queuing system;HBase;Clouds', 'ID': u'6566731', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
