Small-time scaling behaviors of Internet backbone traffic: an empirical study. Internet; telecommunication traffic; small-time scaling behavior; Internet backbone traffic; OC3/12/48 links; tier-1 Internet service provider; empirical data analysis; traffic composition; flow classification; densely clustered packets; correlation-causing factor; sparse flows; Internet; Spine; Traffic control; Telecommunication traffic; Communication system traffic control; Fluctuations; Data analysis; Moon; Aggregates; IP networks. The small-time (sub-seconds) scaling behaviors of Internet backbone traffic, based on traces collected from OC3/12/48 links in a tier-1 ISP is studied. We observe that for a majority of these traces, the (second-order) scaling exponents at small time scales (1 ms - 100 ms) are fairly close to 0.5, indicating that traffic fluctuations at these time scales are (nearly) uncorrelated. In addition, the traces manifest mostly monofractal behaviors at small time scales. The objective of the paper is to understand the potential causes or factors that influence the small-time scalings of Internet backbone traffic via empirical data analysis. We analyze the traffic composition of the traces along two dimensions - flow size and flow density. Our study uncovers dense flows (i.e., flows with bursts of densely clustered packets) as the correlation-causing factor in small time scales, and reveals that the traffic composition in terms of proportions of dense vs. sparse flows plays a major role in influencing the small-time scalings of aggregate traffic.

Inflow: Inverse Network Flow Watermarking for Detecting Hidden Servers. computer network security; data privacy; telecommunication congestion control; telecommunication traffic; watermarking; watermarking gap detection; packet dropping; hidden server identification; congestion mechanisms; illegal content linking; TOR edge communication; deanonymization entity; TOR anonymity; hidden server detection; anonymous network; inverse network flow watermarking; hidden server side; TOR flow control; traffic flow; TOR network; inverse flow watermarking; Inflow; active network traffic analysis; passive network traffic analysis; child pornography content; Watermarking; Servers; Relays; Peer-to-peer computing; IP networks; Uniform resource locators; Microsoft Windows; Traceback; Watermark; TOR; Hidden service. TOR is a well-known and established anonymous network that has increasingly been abused by services distributing and hosting content, in most cases images and videos, that are illegal or morally deplorable (e.g., child pornography content). Law enforcement continually tries to identify the users and providers of such content. State of the art techniques to breach TOR's anonymity are usually based on passive and active network traffic analysis, and rely on the ability of the deanonymization entity to control TOR's edge communication. Despite this, locating hidden servers and linking illegal content with those providing and spreading this content remains an open and controversial issue. In this paper, we describe Inflow, a new technique to identify hidden servers based on inverse flow watermarking. Inflow exploits the influence of congestion mechanisms on the traffic passing through the TOR network. Inflow drops bursts of packets for short time intervals on the receiving side of a traffic flow coming from a hidden server and passing through the TOR network. Packet dropping affects the TOR flow control and causes time gaps in flows observed on the hidden server side. By controlling the communication edges and detecting the watermarking gaps, Inflow is able to detect the hidden server. Our results, obtained by means of empirical experiments performed on the real TOR network, show true positive rates in the range of 90 to 98%.

Inflow: Inverse Network Flow Watermarking for Detecting Hidden Servers. computer network security; data privacy; telecommunication congestion control; telecommunication traffic; watermarking; watermarking gap detection; packet dropping; hidden server identification; congestion mechanisms; illegal content linking; TOR edge communication; deanonymization entity; TOR anonymity; hidden server detection; anonymous network; inverse network flow watermarking; hidden server side; TOR flow control; traffic flow; TOR network; inverse flow watermarking; Inflow; active network traffic analysis; passive network traffic analysis; child pornography content; Watermarking; Servers; Relays; Peer-to-peer computing; IP networks; Uniform resource locators; Microsoft Windows; Traceback; Watermark; TOR; Hidden service. TOR is a well-known and established anonymous network that has increasingly been abused by services distributing and hosting content, in most cases images and videos, that are illegal or morally deplorable (e.g., child pornography content). Law enforcement continually tries to identify the users and providers of such content. State of the art techniques to breach TOR's anonymity are usually based on passive and active network traffic analysis, and rely on the ability of the deanonymization entity to control TOR's edge communication. Despite this, locating hidden servers and linking illegal content with those providing and spreading this content remains an open and controversial issue. In this paper, we describe Inflow, a new technique to identify hidden servers based on inverse flow watermarking. Inflow exploits the influence of congestion mechanisms on the traffic passing through the TOR network. Inflow drops bursts of packets for short time intervals on the receiving side of a traffic flow coming from a hidden server and passing through the TOR network. Packet dropping affects the TOR flow control and causes time gaps in flows observed on the hidden server side. By controlling the communication edges and detecting the watermarking gaps, Inflow is able to detect the hidden server. Our results, obtained by means of empirical experiments performed on the real TOR network, show true positive rates in the range of 90 to 98%.

iLOC: An invisible LOCalization Attack to Internet Threat Monitoring Systems. Internet; invasive software; pseudonoise codes; telecommunication security; invisible localization attack; Internet threat monitoring systems; worm propagation; denial of service attacks; low rate port scan traffic; pseudonoise code; Internet; Monitoring; Telecommunication traffic; Computer crime; Computer displays; Guidelines; Computer worms; Computer science; Algorithm design and analysis; Communications Society. In this paper, we study a new class of attacks, the <i>i</i>nvisible <i>LOC</i>alization (<i>iLOC</i>) attack, which can accurately and invisibly localize monitors of Internet threat monitoring (ITM) systems, a class of widely deployed facilities to characterize Internet threats, such as worm propagation, denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. In the <i>iLOC</i> attack, the attacker launches low-rate port-scan traffic, encoded with a selected <i>pseudo-noise</i> <i>code</i> (PN- code), to targeted networks. While the secret PN-code is invisible to others, the attacker can accurately determine the existence of monitors in the targeted networks based on whether the PN-code is embedded in the report data queried from the data center of the ITM system. We conduct extensive simulations on the <i>iLOC</i> attack using real-world traces. Our data demonstrate that the <i>iLOC</i> attack can accurately identify monitors while remaining invisible to the ITM. Finally, we present a set of guidelines to counteract the <i>iLOC</i> attack.

Dynamic Defense Strategy against Stealth Malware Propagation in Cyber-Physical Systems. cyber-physical systems; decision making; game theory; integer programming; invasive software; predictive control; dynamic defense strategy; stealth malware propagation; cyber-physical systems; advanced persistent threat attacks; CPS; primary safety requirement; shortest-path tree interdiction Stackelberg game; model predictive control strategy; APT attacks; specialized anti-malware program; static game; SSPTI; DSPTI; multi-stage dynamic game; real-time decision making; bi-level integer programs; Benders decomposition algorithm; Malware; Safety; Games; Security; Loss measurement; Conferences; Cyber-physical systems. Stealth malware, a representative tool of advanced persistent threat (APT) attacks, in particular poses an increased threat to cyber-physical systems (CPS). Due to the use of stealthy and evasive techniques (e.g., zero-day exploits, obfuscation techniques), stealth malwares usually render conventional heavyweight countermeasures (e.g., exploits patching, specialized ant-malware program) inapplicable. Light-weight countermeasures (e.g., containment techniques), on the other hand, can help retard the spread of stealth malwares, but the ensuing side effects might violate the primary safety requirement of CPS. Hence, defenders need to find a balance between the gain and loss of deploying light-weight countermeasures. To address this challenge, we model the persistent anti-malware process as a shortest-path tree interdiction (SPTI) Stackelberg game, and safety requirements of CPS are introduced as constraints in the defender's decision model. Specifically, we first propose a static game (SSPTI), and then extend it to a multi-stage dynamic game (DSPTI) to meet the need of real-time decision making. Both games are modelled as bi-level integer programs, and proved to be NP-hard. We then develop a Benders decomposition algorithm to achieve the Stackelberg Equilibrium of SSPTI. Finally, we design a model predictive control strategy to solve DSPTI approximately by sequentially solving an approximation of SSPTI. The extensive simulation results demonstrate that the proposed dynamic defense strategy can achieve a balance between fail-secure ability and fail-safe ability while retarding the stealth malware propagation in CPS.

Dynamic Defense Strategy against Stealth Malware Propagation in Cyber-Physical Systems. cyber-physical systems; decision making; game theory; integer programming; invasive software; predictive control; dynamic defense strategy; stealth malware propagation; cyber-physical systems; advanced persistent threat attacks; CPS; primary safety requirement; shortest-path tree interdiction Stackelberg game; model predictive control strategy; APT attacks; specialized anti-malware program; static game; SSPTI; DSPTI; multi-stage dynamic game; real-time decision making; bi-level integer programs; Benders decomposition algorithm; Malware; Safety; Games; Security; Loss measurement; Conferences; Cyber-physical systems. Stealth malware, a representative tool of advanced persistent threat (APT) attacks, in particular poses an increased threat to cyber-physical systems (CPS). Due to the use of stealthy and evasive techniques (e.g., zero-day exploits, obfuscation techniques), stealth malwares usually render conventional heavyweight countermeasures (e.g., exploits patching, specialized ant-malware program) inapplicable. Light-weight countermeasures (e.g., containment techniques), on the other hand, can help retard the spread of stealth malwares, but the ensuing side effects might violate the primary safety requirement of CPS. Hence, defenders need to find a balance between the gain and loss of deploying light-weight countermeasures. To address this challenge, we model the persistent anti-malware process as a shortest-path tree interdiction (SPTI) Stackelberg game, and safety requirements of CPS are introduced as constraints in the defender's decision model. Specifically, we first propose a static game (SSPTI), and then extend it to a multi-stage dynamic game (DSPTI) to meet the need of real-time decision making. Both games are modelled as bi-level integer programs, and proved to be NP-hard. We then develop a Benders decomposition algorithm to achieve the Stackelberg Equilibrium of SSPTI. Finally, we design a model predictive control strategy to solve DSPTI approximately by sequentially solving an approximation of SSPTI. The extensive simulation results demonstrate that the proposed dynamic defense strategy can achieve a balance between fail-secure ability and fail-safe ability while retarding the stealth malware propagation in CPS.

On the TCP-Friendliness of VoIP Traffic. Telecommunication traffic; Application software; Bandwidth; Internet; Throughput; Communication system traffic control; Transport protocols; Traffic control; Aggregates; Computer networks. 

Can we beat legitimate cyber behavior mimicking attacks from botnets?. information retrieval; online front-ends; security of data; Web sites; legitimate cyber behavior; flash crowd mimicking attacks; botnets; malicious activities; cyber space; illegal actions; Web sites; Web browsing; active bots; Ash; Browsers; Computer crime; Web pages; Detection algorithms; Internet; Gaussian distribution; mimicking attack; flash crowd attack; botnet; detection. Botnets are the engine for malicious activities in cyber space. In order to sustain their botnets and disguise their illegal actions, botnet owners are exhausting their strength to mimic legitimate cyber behavior to fly under the radar, e.g. flash crowd mimicking attacks on popular websites. It is an open and challenging problem: can we beat mimicking attacks or not? We use web browsing on popular websites as an example to explore the issue. In our previous work, we discovered that it is almost impossible to detect mimicking attacks from statistics if the number of active bots of a botnet is sufficient (no less than the number of active legitimate users). In this paper, we pointed out that it is usually hard for botnet owners to have sufficient number of active bots in practice. Therefore, we can discriminate mimicking attacks when the sufficient number condition is not met. We prove our claim theoretically and confirm it with simulations. Our findings can also be applied to a large number of other detection related cases.

Design and Analysis of a Self-Tuning Proportional and Integral Controller for Active Queue Management Routers to Support TCP Flows. Pi control; Proportional control; Queueing analysis; Internet; Traffic control; Stability; Technology management; Engineering management; Information science; Software engineering. 

PeerClean: Unveiling peer-to-peer botnets through dynamic group behavior analysis. command and control systems; feature extraction; invasive software; pattern classification; peer-to-peer computing; probability; statistical analysis; telecommunication traffic; high-level feature extraction; detection probability; multiclass classification model; network connection pattern; flow level traffic statistic; P2P bot-infected host; detection technique; C&C network flow traffic; command and control; P2P botnet; dynamic group behavior analysis; peer-to-peer botnet; PeerClean; Feature extraction; Peer-to-peer computing; Training; Robustness; Support vector machines; Conferences; Computers. Advanced botnets adopt a peer-to-peer (P2P) infrastructure for more resilient command and control (C&amp;C). Traditional detection techniques become less effective in identifying bots that communicate via a P2P structure. In this paper, we present PeerClean, a novel system that detects P2P botnets in real time using only high-level features extracted from C&amp;C network flow traffic. PeerClean reliably distinguishes P2P bot-infected hosts from legitimate P2P hosts by jointly considering flow-level traffic statistics and network connection patterns. Instead of working on individual connections or hosts, PeerClean clusters hosts with similar flow traffic statistics into groups. It then extracts the collective and dynamic connection patterns of each group by leveraging a novel dynamic group behavior analysis. Comparing with the individual host-level connection patterns, the collective group patterns are more robust and differentiable. Multi-class classification models are then used to identify different types of bots based on the established patterns. To increase the detection probability, we further propose to train the model with average group behavior, but to explore the extreme group behavior for the detection. We evaluate PeerClean on real-world flow records from a campus network. Our evaluation shows that PeerClean is able to achieve high detection rates with few false positives.

