On stochastic recursive equations and infinite server queues. discrete time systems; queueing theory; stochastic processes; convergence; correlation theory; network servers; discrete time infinite server queue; arrival process; service duration; phase type distribution; stochastic recursive equation; G-PH-/spl infin/ queue; G-G-/spl infin/ queue; unique stationary solution; coupling convergence; Stochastic processes; Equations; Time measurement; Stochastic systems; Distributed computing; Steady-state; Queueing analysis; Network servers; Telecommunication traffic; Traffic control. The purpose of this paper is to investigate some performance measures of the discrete time infinite server queue under a general arrival process. We assume, more precisely, that at each time unit a batch with a random size may arrive, where the sequence of batch sizes need not be i.i.d. All we request is that it would be stationary ergodic and that the service duration has a phase type distribution. Our goal is to obtain explicit expressions for the first two moments of number of customers in steady state. We obtain this by computing the first two moments of some generic stochastic recursive equations that our system satisfies. We then show that this class of recursive equations allow to solve not only the G/PH//spl infin/ queue but also a network of such queues. We finally investigate the process of residual activity time in a G/G//spl infin/ queue under general stationary ergodic assumptions, obtain the unique stationary solution and establish coupling convergence to it from any initial state.

Polling systems with correlated arrivals. computer networks; queueing theory; computer networks; correlated arrivals; polling systems; arrival processes; queues; gated service disciplines; Queueing analysis; Switches; Legged locomotion; Computer science; Equations; Broadcasting. An analysis is made of polling systems with correlated arrivals, namely, systems in which the arrival processes of customers to the queues are not assumed to be independent. The authors consider cyclic polling systems with N queues, general service time distribution in each queue, and general switch-over times. For both the exhaustive and the gated service disciplines they derive the necessary equations for computing the N expected waiting time figures. A 'pseudo' conservation law for these systems is also derived. The analysis approach can be applied to other polling systems with correlated arrivals.

A simple approximation for modeling nonstationary queues. telecommunication networks; queueing theory; approximation theory; nonlinear differential equations; integration; general queueing systems; nonstationary queues modeling; nonstationary arrival processes; communication networks; pointwise stationary fluid flow approximation; mean queue length; steady state queueing; fluid flow model; nonlinear differential equation; numerical integration; PSFFA model; Transient analysis; Communication networks; Power system modeling; Queueing analysis; Fluid flow; Telecommunication traffic; Traffic control; Information science; Telecommunication computing; Approximation methods. Evaluation of the behavior of queues with nonstationary arrival processes is of importance in several applications including communication networks. However, the analysis of nonstationary queues is in general computationally complex and seldom produces closed form expressions. Thus approximation methods may be more appropriate. The pointwise stationary fluid flow approximation (PSFFA) for determining the mean queue length of nonstationary queues is presented. The PSFFA combines steady state queueing results with a simple fluid flow model to develop a single nonlinear differential equation model of the queue. Numerical integration techniques are used to solve the PSFFA model and the method is illustrated by several examples. The power of this approach is that it can handle very general queueing systems.

A new analysis framework for discrete time queueing systems with general stochastic sources. discrete time systems; queueing theory; telecommunication traffic; moving average processes; Markov processes; time series; probability; asynchronous transfer mode; multiplexing equipment; packet switching; discrete time queueing systems; general stochastic sources; batch arrivals; batch departures; teletraffic analysis; communications networks; computer networks; general arrival models; independent identically distributed models; i.i.d models; periodic models; Markovian models; moving average time-series model; multidimensional generating functions; combinatorial analysis; ballot theorems; infinite sum; stationary probability distribution; multi-server model; i.i.d arrivals; ATM multiplexer; periodic sources; discrete moving average model; closed-form expression; system queue lengths; Queueing analysis; Stochastic systems; Performance analysis; Asynchronous transfer mode; Matrix decomposition; Cities and towns; Fluctuations; Random variables; Helium; Discrete time systems. This paper considers a general class of discrete time systems with batch arrivals and departures. Such models appear frequently in the teletraffic analysis of computer and communications networks. Our arrival models are assumed to be quite general. They could be independent and identically distributed (i.i.d) in successive slots, be periodic, be Markovian or described by the moving average time-series model, etc. Our solution framework is novel and unifying. It uses a combination of multi-dimensional generating functions and combinatorial analysis using extensions of classical ballot theorems. In general, we provide an explicit analytical expression as an infinite sum to obtain the system stationary probability distribution avoiding classical root finding methods, matrix analytical methodologies and finally spectral decomposition approaches. We provide a number of analytical and numerical examples including a simple multi-server model with i.i.d arrivals, an ATM multiplexer fed by a (random) number of periodic sources, and a new example considering the discrete moving average model for the arrival process where a simple closed-form expression for the stationary distribution of the system queue lengths is provided.

Approximate performance models of polling systems using stochastic Petri nets. approximation theory; error analysis; Markov processes; Petri nets; queueing theory; approximate performance models; approximation error; queueing theory; stochastic Petri nets; Markov chain; performance analysis; approximation methods; finite population; asymmetric polling systems; mean cycle time; mean response time; folding method; fixed-point iteration method; computation cost; Stochastic systems; Petri nets; Performance analysis; Approximation methods; State-space methods; Computer science; Stochastic processes; Error analysis; Delay; Centralized control. The performance of a polling system is modeled by stochastic Petri nets and its analysis is done by numerically solving the underlying Markov chain. One key problem in using stochastic Petri nets for real applications is that the size of underlying Markov chain tends to be large, and thus to be computationally intractable. In order to carry out the performance analysis of a large complex system in practice, the authors develop approximation methods at the Petri net level for the finite population, asymmetric polling systems and analyze the error due to the approximation. The mean cycle time and the mean response time of the system are approximated by the folding method and by the fixed-point iteration method. The effect of an increasing number of customers on the polling systems is studied using these approximations. The approximation methods are shown to save more than 95% of computation cost without a concomitant loss in accuracy. The methods perform very well at low offered loads.

Recursive computation of steady-state probabilities in priority queues. performance evaluation; queueing theory; recursive computation; performance evaluation; steady-state probabilities; priority queues; preemptive; nonpreemptive; Steady-state; Distributed computing; Probability distribution; Random variables. Recursive formulas are derived for computing the state probabilities in priority queuing systems (preemptive and nonpreemptive). The derivation is based only on the general structure of the generating function involved, and thus is similar and more general than previous methods. Also discussed are the applications of the method to other queuing systems.

A single-server queue with vacations and non-gated time-limited service. queueing theory; nongated time limited service; single-server queue; M/G/1 queue; server vacations; functional equation; numerical technique; weighted sum; Laguerre functions; linear equations; coefficients; work-decomposition; Poisson arrivals see time averages; average customer response time; exponential service time; Equations; Queueing analysis; Delay; Network servers; Wideband; Communication system traffic control; Traffic control; Communication system traffic; Upper bound; Stochastic processes. An M/G/1 queue with server vacations and nongated time-limited service is analyzed. A functional equation which characterizes the system behavior is derived. The equation is solved by a numerical technique that approximates the unknown function by a weighted sum of Laguerre functions with unknown coefficients. The functional equation is transformed into a set of linear equations from which the coefficients can be computed. By the work-decomposition and Poisson arrivals see time averages (PASTA) properties, the average customer response time can be readily obtained for the case of exponential service time. Numerical examples are included to demonstrate the validity of the technique.

Discrete-time priority queueing systems with two-state Markov modulated arrival processes. discrete time systems; Markov processes; packet switching; queueing theory; packet arrivals; discrete-time priority queueing systems; Markov modulated arrivals; single server; communication systems; steady-state joint generating functions; queue length distributions; average time delays; transition rate; Steady-state; Delay effects; Queueing analysis; Switches; Permission; Application software; Computer applications; Communication networks; Intensity modulation; Markov processes. A class of discrete-time priority queueing systems with Markov modulated arrivals is considered. In these systems, N queues are served by a single server according to priorities that are preassigned to the queues. Packet arrivals are modeled as discrete-time batch processes with a distribution that depends on the state of an independent common two-state Markov chain. This allows coverage of a wide range of applications in computer and communication systems when the parameters of the arrival processes are not fixed in time but vary according to the state of the underlying Markov chain. The steady-state joint generating functions of the queue length distributions of this class of systems are derived. From these, moments of the queue lengths as well as average time delays can be obtained. A numerical example provides some insight into the behavior of such systems. Also, the effect of the transition rate between the states of the modulating Markov chain on the average time delay in the system is investigated for different patterns of loads on the queues of the system.

An approximation for performance evaluation of stationary single server queues. Markov processes; multiplexing; probability; queueing theory; first in first out queue; semiMarkov queues; stationary ergodic process; approximation; performance evaluation; stationary single server queues; probability distributions; stationary statistics; FIFO; Wiener-Hopf factorization; state space; statistical multiplexer; net input process; Gaussian discrete-time stochastic process; State-space methods; Queueing analysis; Telecommunication traffic; Traffic control; Australia; Probability distribution; Autoregressive processes; Markov processes; Statistical distributions; Stochastic processes. A method for approximating the probability distributions of stationary statistics in first-in, first-out (FIFO) single server queues is provided. The method is based on the Wiener-Hopf factorization technique and is applied to semi-Markov queues with the underlying state space of unlimited size. A particularly important case is a model for a statistical multiplexer where the net input process forms a stationary ergodic Gaussian discrete-time stochastic process.

Continuous time opinion dynamics of agents with multi-leveled opinions and binary actions. approximation theory; Markov processes; multi-agent systems; binary actions; stochastic multiagent opinion dynamics model; transient states; numerical simulations; NIMFA; N-intertwined mean field approximation; Markov system; Markov processes; Computational modeling; Analytical models; Sociology; Statistics; Conferences; Opinion dynamics; Social computing and networks; Markov chains; agent based models. This paper proposes and analyzes a stochastic multiagent opinion dynamics model. We are interested in a multi-leveled opinion of each agent which is randomly influenced by the binary actions of its neighbors. It is shown that, as far as the number of agents in the network is finite, the model asymptotically produces consensus. The consensus value corresponds to one of the absorbing states of the associated Markov system. However, when the number of agents is large, we emphasize that partial agreements are reached and these transient states are metastable, i.e., the expected persistence duration is arbitrarily large. These states are characterized using an N-intertwined mean field approximation (NIMFA) for the Markov system. Numerical simulations validate the proposed analysis.

