The k-Constrained Bipartite Matching Problem: Approximation Algorithms and Applications to Wireless Networks. frequency division multiple access; radio networks; k-constrained bipartite matching; approximation algorithms; communication networks; resource assignment problems; maximum weight matching problem; bipartite graphs; OFDMA wireless networks; Approximation algorithms; Wireless networks; Bipartite graph; Communications Society; Mathematics; Electronic mail; Communication networks; Optimal control; Cost function; Optimal matching. In communication networks, resource assignment problems appear in several different settings. These problems are often modeled by a maximum weight matching problem in bipartite graphs and efficient matching algorithms are well known. In several applications, the corresponding matching problem has to be solved many times in a row as the underlying system operates in a time-slotted fashion and the edge weights change over time. However, changing the assignments can come with a certain cost for reconfiguration that depends on the number of changed edges between subsequent assignments. In order to control the cost of reconfiguration, we propose the k-constrained bipartite matching problem for bipartite graphs, which seeks an optimal matching that realizes at most k changes from a previous matching. We provide fast approximation algorithms with provable guarantees for this problem. Furthermore, to cope with the sequential nature of assignment problems, we introduce an online variant of the k-constrained matching problem and derive online algorithms that are based on our approximation algorithms for the k-constrained bipartite matching problem. Finally, we establish the applicability of our model and our algorithms in the context of OFDMA wireless networks finding a significant performance improvement for the proposed algorithms.

The online disjoint set cover problem and its applications. computational complexity; set theory; online disjoint set cover problem; maximum disjoint set cover problem; subsets; competitive ratio minimization; online DSCP algorithm; optimal offline algorithm; Ω(√ln n) bound; online crowd-sourcing problem; online coverage lifetime maximization problem; WSN; online resource allocation problem; Color; Partitioning algorithms; Resource management; Algorithm design and analysis; Silicon; Conferences; Computers. Given a universe U of n elements and a collection of subsets S of U, the maximum disjoint set cover problem (DSCP) is to partition S into as many set covers as possible, where a set cover is defined as a collection of subsets whose union is U. We consider the online DSCP, in which the subsets arrive one by one (possibly in an order chosen by an adversary), and must be irrevocably assigned to some partition on arrival with the objective of minimizing the competitive ratio. The competitive ratio of an online DSCP algorithm A is defined as the maximum ratio of the number of disjoint set covers obtained by the optimal offline algorithm to the number of disjoint set covers obtained by A across all inputs. We propose an online algorithm for solving the DSCP with competitive ratio ln n. We then show a lower bound of Ω(√ln n) on the competitive ratio for any online DSCP algorithm. The online disjoint set cover problem has wide ranging applications in practice, including the online crowd-sourcing problem, the online coverage lifetime maximization problem in WSNs, and in online resource allocation problems.

Correcting the Output of Approximate Graph Matching Algorithms. approximation theory; graph theory; probability; social networking (online); stochastic processes; seedless graph matching; approximate graph matching algorithms; node labels; correlated graphs; social network de-anonymization; graph matching correction algorithm; stochastic block model graphs; probability; Approximation algorithms; Social network services; Stochastic processes; Inference algorithms; Mathematical model; Conferences; Measurement. Approximate graph matching refers to the problem of finding the best correspondence between the node labels of two correlated graphs. The problem has been applied to a number of domains, including social network de-anonymization. Recently, a number of algorithms have been proposed for seeded graph matching, which uses a few seed matches between two graphs to determine the remaining correspondence. We adapt the ideas from seeded algorithms to develop a graph matching correction algorithm, which takes a partially correct correspondence as input and returns an improved correspondence. We show that this algorithm can correct all errors in graph matching for stochastic block model graphs with high probability. Finally, we apply our algorithm as a post-processing step for other approximate graph matching algorithms to significantly improve the performance of state-of-the-art algorithms for seedless graph matching.

Correcting the Output of Approximate Graph Matching Algorithms. approximation theory; graph theory; probability; social networking (online); stochastic processes; seedless graph matching; approximate graph matching algorithms; node labels; correlated graphs; social network de-anonymization; graph matching correction algorithm; stochastic block model graphs; probability; Approximation algorithms; Social network services; Stochastic processes; Inference algorithms; Mathematical model; Conferences; Measurement. Approximate graph matching refers to the problem of finding the best correspondence between the node labels of two correlated graphs. The problem has been applied to a number of domains, including social network de-anonymization. Recently, a number of algorithms have been proposed for seeded graph matching, which uses a few seed matches between two graphs to determine the remaining correspondence. We adapt the ideas from seeded algorithms to develop a graph matching correction algorithm, which takes a partially correct correspondence as input and returns an improved correspondence. We show that this algorithm can correct all errors in graph matching for stochastic block model graphs with high probability. Finally, we apply our algorithm as a post-processing step for other approximate graph matching algorithms to significantly improve the performance of state-of-the-art algorithms for seedless graph matching.

A better constant approximation for minimum 3-connected m-dominating set problem in unit disk graph using Tutte decomposition. approximation theory; fault tolerance; graph theory; set theory; wireless sensor networks; constant approximation algorithm; minimum 3-connected m-dominating set problem; unit disk graph; Tutte decomposition; topology change; induced graph; one-vertex-connected set; minimum k-connected m-dominating set problem; fault-tolerance; performance ratio; Particle separators; Approximation algorithms; Algorithm design and analysis; Approximation methods; Wireless networks; Conferences; Computers; virtual backbone; wireless networks; 3-connected m-dominating set; fault-tolerant; Tutte decomposition; approximation algorithm. Over years, virtual backbone has attracted lots of attentions as a promising approach to deal with the broadcasting storm problem in wireless networks. One popular way to construct a quality virtual backbone is to solve the minimum connected dominating set problem. However, a virtual backbone computed in this way is not resilient against topology change since the induced graph by the connected dominating set is one-vertex-connected. As a result, the minimum k-connected m-dominating set problem is introduced to construct a fault-tolerant virtual backbone. Currently, the best known approximation algorithm for the problem in unit disk graph assumes k ≤ 3 and m ≥ 1 and its performance ratio is 280 when k = m = 3. In this paper, we use a classical result from graph theory, Tutte decomposition, to design a new approximation algorithm for the problem in unit disk graph for k ≤ 3 and m ≥ 3. In particular, the algorithm features with much simpler structure and much smaller performance ratio, e.g. nearly 66 when k = m = 3. We also conduct simulation to evaluate the performance of our algorithm.

Approximate online learning for passive monitoring of multi-channel wireless networks. computational complexity; radio networks; approximate online learning; passive monitoring; multichannel wireless networks; K channels; transmission activities; face high computational costs; NP hardness; decision problem; online learning algorithms; sublinear regret bounds; greedy offline algorithm; computation cost; Monitoring; Approximation algorithms; Approximation methods; Complexity theory; Greedy algorithms; Joints; Wireless networks. We consider the problem of optimally assigning p sniffers to K channels to monitor the transmission activities in a multi-channel wireless network. The activity of users is initially unknown to the sniffers and is to be learned along with channel assignment decisions. Previously proposed online learning algorithms face high computational costs due to the NPhardness of the decision problem. In this paper, we propose two approximate online learning algorithms, ϵ-GREEDY-APPROX and EXP3-APPROX, which are shown to have better scalability, and achieve sub-linear regret bounds over time compared to a greedy offline algorithm with complete information. We demonstrate both analytically and empirically the trade-offs between the computation cost and rate of learning.

Power Controlled Scheduling with Consecutive Transmission Constraints: Complexity Analysis and Algorithm Design. computational complexity; electromagnetic wave interference; greedy algorithms; radio networks; scheduling; theorem proving; time division multiple access; power controlled scheduling; consecutive transmission constraints; complexity analysis; algorithm design; minimum-frame-length scheduling problem; wireless networks; physical interference model; NP-completeness proof; guaranteed and greedy scheduling algorithm; polynomial-time approximation; bounded approximation ratio; consecutive transmission constraint; Algorithm design and analysis; Scheduling algorithm; Optimal scheduling; Approximation algorithms; Power control; Power system modeling; Interference constraints; Protocols; Wireless networks; Telecommunication traffic. We study the joint power control and minimum-frame-length scheduling problem in wireless networks, under the physical interference model and subject to consecutive transmission constraints. We start by investigating the complexity of the problem and present the first NP-completeness proof in the literature. We propose a polynomial-time approximation algorithm, called guaranteed and greedy scheduling (GGS) algorithm, to tackle this problem. We prove a bounded approximation ratio of the proposed algorithm relative to the optimal scheduling algorithm. Moreover, the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art related algorithm. Interestingly, our algorithm together with its bounded approximation ratio is applicable even when the consecutive transmission constraint is relaxed. To the best of our knowledge, the proposed algorithm is the first known polynomial-time algorithm with a proven bounded approximation ratio for the joint power control and scheduling problem under the physical interference model. We further demonstrate the performance and advantages of our algorithm through extensive simulations.

Frequency-Domain Packet Scheduling for 3GPP LTE Uplink. 3G mobile communication; computational complexity; multi-access systems; packet radio networks; polynomial approximation; telecommunication standards; 3GPP LTE uplink; frequency domain packet scheduling; MAX SNP hard problem; approximation algorithm; polynomial runtime; Scheduling algorithm; OFDM; Approximation algorithms; Peak to average power ratio; Algorithm design and analysis; Delay; Costs; Bandwidth; Frequency domain analysis; Heuristic algorithms. In this paper, we investigate the frequency-domain packet scheduling (FDPS) problem for 3GPP LTE Uplink (UL). Instead of studying a specific scheduling policy, we provide a unified approach to tackle this issue. First we formalize a general LTE UL FDPS problem which is suitable for various scheduling policies. Then we prove that the problem is MAX SNP-hard, which implies that approximation algorithms with constant approximation ratios are the best that we can hope for. Therefore we design two approximation algorithms, both of which have polynomial runtime. Subsequently, we analyze the two algorithms and find their approximation ratios. The first algorithm is easy to follow, since it is based on a simple greedy method. The second one is based on the local ratio technique and it can approximately solve the LTE UL FDPS problem with a approximation ratio of 2.

Approximation algorithm for minimum weight fault-tolerant virtual backbone in homogeneous wireless sensor network. approximation theory; fault tolerance; graph theory; virtualisation; wireless sensor networks; Steiner network design problem; unit disk graph; MWCDS; minimum weight k-connected m-fold dominating set; wireless sensor network; minimum weight fault-tolerant virtual backbone; approximation algorithm; Approximation algorithms; Approximation methods; Sensors; Algorithm design and analysis; Wireless sensor networks; Conferences; Computers. In a wireless sensor network, the virtual backbone plays an important role. Due to accidental damage or energy depletion, it is desirable that the virtual backbone is fault-tolerant. Such a consideration leads to the problem of finding a minimum weight k-connected m-fold dominating set ((k, m)-MWCDS for short). In this paper, we give an (α + 2.5ρ)-approximation for (2, m)-MWCDS with m ≥ 2 in unit disk graph, where α is the performance ratio for the minimum weight m-fold dominating set problem, and ρ is the performance ratio for the {0,1,2}-Steiner Network Design problem. In view of currently best known ratios for α and ρ, (2, m)-MWCDS has a (9 + ε)-approximation for m ≥ 3 and a (8 + ε)-approximation for m =2, where ε is an arbitrary positive real number.

Energy-efficient transmission with data sharing. optimisation; radio networks; energy-efficient transmission; data sharing; wireless system; adaptive wireless devices; transmission redundancy; energy efficiency; bi-objective optimization problem; O(ln T)-competitive; Energy consumption; Redundancy; Algorithm design and analysis; Schedules; Approximation algorithms; Optimal scheduling; Wireless communication. In a wireless system, when multiple applications can share data transmitted by rate-adaptive wireless devices, there exists a trade-off between transmission redundancy and energy efficiency. This paper conducts the first theoretical analysis on such a trade-off. We formulate the problem as a bi-objective optimization problem to simultaneously minimize the transmission redundancy and the energy consumption. In the offline setting that the full information is known in advance, we provide optimal algorithms for the bi-objective optimization problem. In the online setting, we provide an online algorithm with proven performance bound to approximate the optimal solution without relying on any assumed distribution or future information. The proposed online algorithm is proved O(ln T)-competitive with respect to transmission redundancy and also O(ln T)-competitive with respect to energy consumption, where T is the number of time slots. That is, the output of the algorithm always approximates the optimal solution within a logarithmic factor over all possible inputs. Our simulation results further validate the efficiency of our online algorithm.

