EnLoc: Energy-Efficient Localization for Mobile Phones. Global Positioning System; mobile computing; wireless LAN; EnLoc; energy-efficient localization; mobile phones; location-based applications; GPS; WiFi; GSM; Energy efficiency; Mobile handsets; Global Positioning System; GSM; Batteries; Energy measurement; Wireless sensor networks; Costs; Poles and towers; Communications Society. A growing number of mobile phone applications utilize physical location to express the context of information. Most of these location-based applications assume GPS capabilities. Unfortunately, GPS incurs an unacceptable energy cost that can reduce the phone's battery life to less than nine hours. Alternate localization technologies, based on WiFi or GSM, improve battery life at the expense of localization accuracy. This paper quantifies this important tradeoff that underlies a range of emerging services. Driven by measurements from Nokia N95 phones, we develop an energy-efficient localization framework called EnLoc. The framework characterizes the optimal localization accuracy for a given energy budget, and develops prediction- based heuristics for real-time use. Evaluation on traces from real users demonstrates the possibility of achieving good localization accuracy for a realistic energy budget.

RADAR: an in-building RF-based user location and tracking system. mobile computing; wireless LAN; radio tracking; radiowave propagation; signal processing; RADAR; in-building tracking system; RF-based tracking system; user location; mobile computing devices; local-area wireless networks; location-aware systems; signal strength processing; multiple base stations; overlapping coverage; signal propagation modeling; Radar tracking; Radio frequency; Wireless networks; Mobile computing; Computer networks; Wireless LAN; Global Positioning System; Radar signal processing; Signal processing; Base stations. The proliferation of mobile computing devices and local-area wireless networks has fostered a growing interest in location-aware systems and services. In this paper we present RADAR, a radio-frequency (RF)-based system for locating and tracking users inside buildings. RADAR operates by recording and processing signal strength information at multiple base stations positioned to provide overlapping coverage in the area of interest. It combines empirical measurements with signal propagation modeling to determine user location and thereby enable location-aware services and applications. We present experimental results that demonstrate the ability of RADAR to estimate user location with a high degree of accuracy.

Predictive distance-based mobility management for PCS networks. personal communication networks; prediction theory; telecommunication network management; Gaussian processes; Markov processes; radio tracking; cellular radio; probability; Gauss-Markov model; predictive distance-based mobility management; mobile tracking; user mobility patterns; wireless PCS networks; mobile velocity; correlation; future location prediction; destination mobile; network paging; probability; threshold distance; mobility management cost; nonpredictive distance-based scheme; simulations; performance; call patterns; GSM; update cost; page cost; mobile location inspection frequency; Mobile radio mobility management; Personal communication networks; Costs; Gaussian processes; Telecommunication traffic; Frequency; Inspection; Wireless communication; Communication standards; North America. This paper presents a mobile tracking scheme that exploits the predictability of user mobility patterns in wireless PCS networks. Instead of the constant velocity fluid-flow or the random-walk mobility model, a more realistic Gauss-Markov model is introduced, where a mobile's velocity is correlated in time to a various degree. Based on the Gauss-Markov model, a mobile's future location is predicted by the network based on the information gathered from the mobile's last report of location and velocity. When a call is made, the network pages the destination mobile at and around the predicted location of the mobile and in the order of descending probability until the mobile is found. A mobile shares the same prediction information with the network and reports its new location whenever it reaches some threshold distance away from the predicted location. We describe an analytical framework to evaluate the cost of mobility management for the proposed predictive distance-based scheme. We then compare this cost against that of the regular, non-predictive distance-based scheme, which is obtained through simulations. Performance advantage of the proposed scheme is demonstrated under various mobility and call patterns, update cost, page cost, and frequencies of mobile location inspections.

Location management for PCS networks with consideration of mobility patterns. mobility management (mobile radio); personal communication networks; cellular radio; dynamic location management; personal communication service; PCS network; coordinate system; hexagonal cellular architecture; all-direction mobility model; optimization; Personal communication networks; Costs; Shape; Base stations; Telephony; Databases; Paging strategies; Computer network management; Cities and towns; Mobile computing. This paper addresses the dynamic location management for personal communication service (PCS) networks with consideration of mobility patterns. The popular hexagonal cellular architecture is considered. In this paper, we first introduce a coordinate system for the hexagonal cellular architectures. Then, we develop an all-direction mobility model based on the coordinate system for the hexagonal cellular architecture to cope with the mobility patterns of mobile terminals (MTs). The shape and size of the local area (LA) in the dynamic location management scheme is determined by minimizing the total location management cost with bounding the paging cost The optimization problem is transferred to maximize expected number of cells traversed by the MT in the LA with a given size of the LA. The analytic model of calculating the probabilities of any MT's moving is established. An algorithm is proposed to solve the optimization problem efficiently.

Temporal Reachability in Vehicular Networks. 5G mobile communication; vehicular ad hoc networks; vehicle-to-vehicle communication technologies; temporal connectivity; vehicular network operations; vehicular mobility; temporal reachability; vehicular network performance; mobile network technologies; DSRC; 5G network; Trajectory; Global Positioning System; Roads; Calibration; Public transportation; 5G mobile communication; Computational modeling. Upcoming mobile network technologies developed in the context of 5G and DSRC are expected to finally legitimize direct data transfers among vehicles as a standard communication paradigm. We investigate fundamental properties of the topology of vehicular networks built on top of these emerging vehicle-to-vehicle communication technologies. Our study yields multiple elements of originality: ( i) it addresses temporal connectivity, which has been poorly investigated despite a high relevance for vehicular network operations; (ii) it introduces exact but computationally efficient models of the temporal connectivity of vehicular networks; (iii) it evaluates the proposed models in urban settings that exhibit an unprecedented combination of dependability, scale and generality of vehicular mobility. This approach lets us unveil an apparent scale-and city-invariant law of temporal reachability in vehicular networks. Finally, we open our original scenarios to the research community, so as to ensure reproducibility of our results and foster further investigations of vehicular network performance.

Temporal Reachability in Vehicular Networks. 5G mobile communication; vehicular ad hoc networks; vehicle-to-vehicle communication technologies; temporal connectivity; vehicular network operations; vehicular mobility; temporal reachability; vehicular network performance; mobile network technologies; DSRC; 5G network; Trajectory; Global Positioning System; Roads; Calibration; Public transportation; 5G mobile communication; Computational modeling. Upcoming mobile network technologies developed in the context of 5G and DSRC are expected to finally legitimize direct data transfers among vehicles as a standard communication paradigm. We investigate fundamental properties of the topology of vehicular networks built on top of these emerging vehicle-to-vehicle communication technologies. Our study yields multiple elements of originality: ( i) it addresses temporal connectivity, which has been poorly investigated despite a high relevance for vehicular network operations; (ii) it introduces exact but computationally efficient models of the temporal connectivity of vehicular networks; (iii) it evaluates the proposed models in urban settings that exhibit an unprecedented combination of dependability, scale and generality of vehicular mobility. This approach lets us unveil an apparent scale-and city-invariant law of temporal reachability in vehicular networks. Finally, we open our original scenarios to the research community, so as to ensure reproducibility of our results and foster further investigations of vehicular network performance.

Inter-Call Mobility model: A spatio-temporal refinement of Call Data Records using a Gaussian mixture model. cellular radio; Gaussian processes; mobile handsets; mobility management (mobile radio); spatio-temporal refinement; Gaussian mixture model; global mobile phone penetration; cellular call data records; human mobility; user movement; real-world trace; probabilistic intercall mobility model; user proximity probability; Trajectory; Accuracy; Mobile communication; Analytical models; Mobile computing; Mobile handsets; Estimation. With global mobile phone penetration nearing 100%, cellular Call Data Records (CDRs) provide a large-scale and ubiquitous, but also sparse and skewed snapshot of human mobility. It may be difficult or inappropriate to reach strong conclusions about user movement based on such data without proper understanding of user movement between call records. Based on an analysis of a real-world trace, we propose a novel, probabilistic Inter-Call Mobility (ICM) model of users' position in between calls. The ICM model combines Gaussian mixtures to build a general, comprehensive spatio-temporal refinement of CDRs.We demonstrate that ICM model's application yields strikingly different conclusions to the existing models when applied to basic CDR analyses, such as user proximity probability.

Analysis and applications of smartphone user mobility. mobility management (mobile radio); smart phones; social networking (online); storage management; smartphone user mobility; mobile devices; location-based services; user mobility prediction; social networks-based popular location; real smartphone users; individual mobility prediction; content prefetching; shared ride recommendation; Prefetching; Accuracy; Cities and towns; Predictive models; Measurement; Wireless communication; Markov processes. Users around the world have embraced new generation of mobile devices such as the smartphones at a remarkable rate. These devices are equipped with powerful communication and computation capabilities and they enable a wide range of exciting location-based services, e.g., location based ads, content prefetching etc. Many of these services can benefit from a better understanding of the smartphone user mobility, which may differ significantly from the general user mobility. Hence, previous works on understanding user mobility models and predicting user mobility may not directly apply to smartphone users. To overcome this, in this paper we analyze data from two popular location based social networks, where the users are real smartphone users and the places they check-in represent the typical locations where they use their smartphone applications. Specifically, we analyze how individual users move across different locations. We identify several factors that affect user mobility and their relative significance. We then leverage these factors to perform individual mobility prediction. We further show that our mobility prediction yields significant benefit to two important location based applications: content prefetching and shared ride recommendation.

Efficient location management based on moving location areas. personal communication networks; cellular radio; telecommunication network management; efficient location management; moving location areas; personal communication systems; PCS; mobile users tracking; mobile users location; mobility management scheme; location prediction; traffic flow theory; quasi-static state; cellular radio; Personal communication networks; Mobile radio mobility management; Road transportation; Bandwidth; Costs; Computer networks; Computational modeling; GSM; Radio spectrum management; Design optimization. Personal communication systems (PCS) maintain a location management mechanism for tracking the location of their mobile users. The increasing population of mobile users leads to congestion problems in these systems, and motivates the development of more efficient management schemes. This work presents a new mobility management scheme that integrates the location area approach with the location prediction idea. It is based on results from traffic flow theory and it is first that uses the concept of moving location areas. Traffic flow theory suggests that people tend to reside in specific places for long periods of time. Occasionally, they move to new locations and try to minimize the travel time using highways as much as possible. The scheme uses two complementary sets of location areas that overlap each other. The first set contains small location areas and is designated for locating mobile users in a quasi-static state. The second set covers the highways and it is designated to track mobile users while they are traveling from place to place, where each highway is covered by a single location area. The dual set design enables tracking mobile users at a high degree of accuracy with low update cost while they are quasi-static state, and reduces the amount of update operations when they travel. For tracing mobile users on a highway, the scheme uses a system of moving location areas. A moving location area (MLA) is a small location area that defines the location of a group of mobile users, which are geographically concentrated and move in the same direction. The scheme guarantees low rate of update and search operations at each cell of the system and efficiently utilizes the radio spectrum and the network resources with low computational overhead. These advantages are also backed by simulation results.

Personal paging area design based on mobile's moving behaviors. personal communication networks; paging communication; radio direction-finding; data mining; probability; personal paging area design; mobile moving behavior; location tracking; behavior-based strategy; data mining technologies; mobile moving logs; time-varying probability; optimal paging area; time region; computational cost; cost model; heuristics; fixed paging area; GSM system; regular moving mobiles; PCN; personal communication network; Costs; Data mining; Computational efficiency; GSM. We propose a new location tracking strategy called behavior-based strategy (BBS) based on each mobile's moving behavior. With the help of data mining technologies the moving behavior of each mobile could be mined from long-term collection of the mobile's moving logs. From the moving behavior of each mobile, we first estimate the time-varying probability of the mobile and then the optimal paging area of each time region is derived. To reduce unnecessary computation, we consider the location tracking and computational cost and then derive a cost model. A heuristics is proposed to minimize the cost model through finding the appropriate moving period checkpoints of each mobile. The experimental results show our strategy outperforms fixed paging area strategy currently used in the GSM system and time-based strategy for highly regular moving mobiles.

