CARA: Collision-Aware Rate Adaptation for IEEE 802.11 WLANs. Physical layer; Wireless LAN; Transmitters; System performance; Feedback; Throughput; Media Access Protocol; Collision avoidance; Multiaccess communication; Modulation coding. 

Spread spectrum medium access protocol with collision avoidance in mobile ad-hoc wireless network. spread spectrum communication; access protocols; radio networks; land mobile radio; spread spectrum medium access protocol; collision avoidance; mobile ad-hoc wireless network; collision avoidance multiple access protocols; medium access protocols; request-to-send; clear-to-send message dialogue; hidden terminal; exposed terminal; retransmission speed; spreading code assignment; simulation results; channel throughput; Spread spectrum communication; Access protocols; Collision avoidance; Intelligent networks; Wireless networks; Multiaccess communication; Throughput; Media Access Protocol; Data communication; Transmitters. Spread spectrum techniques and collision avoidance multiple access protocols are combined to form a new set of medium access protocols for mobile wireless ad hoc networks. The request-to-send and clear-to-send message dialogue solves the "hidden terminal" and the "exposed terminal" problems and speeds up the retransmission. The spreading code assignment avoids disruption of any ongoing transmission by an intruder. Simulation results confirm that a higher channel throughput is achieved by the new protocols even in a dense network.

MIMO wireless networks with directional antennas in indoor environments. antenna arrays; directive antennas; indoor radio; interference suppression; MIMO communication; radiofrequency interference; indoor MIMO wireless networks; directional antennas; signal directionality; MIMO channel structure; MIMO throughput performance; antenna direction combinations; throughput gains; interference reduction; network spatial reuse; Throughput; MIMO; Signal to noise ratio; Gain; Interference; Directional antennas. We perform an experimental characterization of an indoor MIMO system with directional antennas (our prototype multi-sector antennas). The study reveals that, even without antenna directivity gain, the directionality of signals changes the MIMO channel structure and provides a way to improve MIMO throughput performance. It also shows that it is sufficient for the improvement to consider only a small subset out of all possible antenna direction combinations. Finally, our study shows that it is possible to achieve both throughput gains and interference reduction, thus increasing network spatial reuse.

Decoding interfering signals with fewer receiving antennas. interference suppression; multi-access systems; multiuser channels; radiofrequency interference; receiving antennas; signal processing; wireless channels; interfering signals decoding; receiving antennas; deployed wireless networks; multiple data transmissions; communication resource; frequency band; time slot; multiuser transmissions; multiple access channels; MAC; multiple transmitters; interference combination; ICom based reception; zero forcing; successive interference cancellation; SIC; system spectral efficiency; signal processing; Interference; Receiving antennas; Signal processing; Decoding; Transmitting antennas. Due to the hierarchical structure and heterogeneity of most deployed wireless networks, multiple data transmissions using the same communication resource, such as frequency band and time slot, are likely to occur in the same area. Hence, interference becomes critical to the decoding of interfered signals. There have already been numerous techniques dealing with interferences that can be implemented either at the transmitter, the receiver or both, to support simultaneous multi-user transmissions. This paper focuses on the reception design in multiple access channels (MACs) where multiple transmitters send data to a common receiver simultaneously. By exploiting the constructive/destructive interactions among interfering signals, we propose a receiver structure based on interference combination (ICom) incorporating zero-forcing (ZF) and successive interference cancellation (SIC). The proposed receiver structure does not require coordination at the transmitter side and can significantly reduce the number of receiving antennas at a moderate processing cost. The ICom-based reception is shown to be able to not only achieve a significant improvement of system spectral efficiency (SE) under stringent latency constraints, but also make a flexible tradeoff between the requirement of receiving antennas and signal processing complexity, thus facilitating its implementation and deployment.

Uplink and downlink capacity analysis for two-tier CDMA cellular systems. code division multiple access; time division multiple access; cellular radio; uplink capacity analysis; downlink capacity analysis; two-tier CDMA cellular systems; macrocells; microcells; users per unit area; network control; handoff; system capacity; TDMA; system performance; boundary cell; center cell; Downlink; Multiaccess communication; Macrocell networks; Microcell networks; Cellular networks; Control systems; Time division multiple access; Mathematical analysis; System performance; Degradation. The combination of macrocells and microcells in a two-tier cellular system is attractive because it provides a balance between maximizing the number of users per unit area and minimizing the network control associated with handoff. In this paper we study system capacity of a two-tier cellular architecture employing 3 TDMA/CDMA strategies. Both the uplink and downlink are evaluated via mathematical analysis. It shows that system performance degrades for larger macrocells or microcells and the capacities are poor for users near the macrocells' boundary. It also shows a huge discrepancy between the results obtained for the center cell versus those obtained for the boundary cell.

Effective throughput: a unified benchmark for pilot-aided OFDM/SDMA wireless communication systems. OFDM modulation; packet radio networks; mobile radio; antenna arrays; space division multiple access; channel estimation; modulation; channel coding; orthogonal frequency division multiplexing; OFDM; wireless system; multiple antenna; base station; spatial division multiple access; SDMA; system performance; channel estimation; modulation; channel coding; packet error rate; PER; bit error rate; BER; effective throughput; transmission delay; simulation; antenna array; Throughput; Multiaccess communication; Wireless communication; System performance; Channel estimation; Bit error rate; Base stations; Modulation coding; OFDM modulation; Channel coding. In this paper, we study the uplink performance of an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) wireless system where multiple antennas are utilized at the base station (BS). Further, capacity can be greatly enhanced through spatial division multiple access (SDMA), so that several users can transmit packets simultaneously to the BS. The system performance is determined by various transmission techniques, including methods for channel estimation, modulation, as well as channel coding. Conventional parameters such as packet error rate (PER) and bit error rate (BER) are unable to reflect the actual system performance because no consideration is given to the overheads incurred by the transmission techniques. Therefore, we are motivated to propose a novel concept called effective throughput to characterize the capacity available to users by incorporating all these factors. The effective throughput for a user can be viewed as the average number of successfully received data bits in an OFDM symbol after excluding erroneously received packets and the overheads due to channel estimation and coding. It also directly relates to the transmission delay of a user packet. The system effective throughput is the aggregated effective throughput of all users. Simulation results demonstrate that effective throughput can serve as a useful and more meaningful benchmark parameter in optimizing system performance.

Throughput Optimization of Wireless Mesh Networks with MIMO Links. interference suppression; MIMO communication; optimisation; receiving antennas; wireless LAN; wireless mesh networks; MIMO links; multiple input multiple output antennas; sophisticated physical layer techniques; interference suppression; WLAN; WIMAX; layer protocols; Throughput; Wireless mesh networks; MIMO; Physical layer; Interference suppression; Receiving antennas; Wireless LAN; WiMAX; Routing protocols; Media Access Protocol. Multiple input multiple output (MIMO) antennas use sophisticated physical layer techniques to provide significant benefits over conventional antenna technology. Multiple independent data streams can be sent over the MIMO antenna elements. MIMO link can also suppress interference from neighboring links as long as the total useful streams and interfering streams are no greater than the number of receiving antenna elements. For these reasons MIMO antennas are increasingly being considered for use in interference limited wireless mesh networks and have been adopted by WLAN and WIMAX standards. However, the benefits of the MIMO technology in improving network performance are limited unless the higher layer protocols also exploit these capabilities. In this paper we are interested in characterizing the benefits of cross-layer optimizations in interference limited wireless mesh networks with MIMO links. We formulate a framework where data routing at the protocol layer, link scheduling at the MAC layer and stream control at the physical layer can be jointly optimized for throughput maximization in the presence of interference. We then develop an efficient algorithm to solve the resulting throughput optimization problem subject to fairness constraints.

Performance Analysis of Contention Based Medium Access Control Protocols. Performance analysis; Media Access Protocol; Access protocols; Throughput; Analytical models; USA Councils; Wireless LAN; Cellular networks; Next generation networking; Wireless communication. 

Partially overlapping channel assignment based on “node orthogonality” for 802.11 wireless networks. channel allocation; radiofrequency interference; wireless LAN; partially overlapping channel assignment; node orthogonality; 802.11 wireless networks; interference model; adjacent channel separation; throughput maximization; approximate algorithm MICA; Interference; Throughput; Optimization; Signal to noise ratio; Approximation algorithms; Wireless networks; Bit rate. In this study, we investigate the problem of partially overlapping channel assignment to improve the performance of 802.11 wireless networks. We first derive a novel interference model that takes into account both the adjacent channel separation and the physical distance of the two nodes employing adjacent channels. This model defines “node orthogonality”, which states that two nodes over adjacent channels are orthogonal if they are physically sufficiently separated. We propose an approximate algorithm MICA to minimize the total interference for throughput maximization. Extensive simulation study has been performed to validate our design and to compare the performances of our algorithm with those of the state-of-the-art.

Capacity gain through power enhancement in multi-radio multi-channel wireless networks. channel capacity; cochannel interference; radio networks; wireless channels; capacity gain; power enhancement; multiradio multichannel wireless networks; MR-MC wireless networks; cochannel enlarging effect; cochannel distance; cochannel transmissions; link capacity; channel-constraint region; power-constraint region; cochannel interference; Interference; Wireless networks; Receivers; Signal to noise ratio; Channel models; Bandwidth. The main focus of this paper is to show theoretically that power is a crucial factor in multi-radio multi-channel (MR-MC) wireless networks and hence by judiciously leveraging the power, one can realize a considerable gain on the capacity for MR-MC wireless networks. Such a capacity gain through power enhancement is revealed by our new insights of a co-channel enlarging effect. In particular, when the number of available channels (c) in a network is larger than that necessary for enabling the maximum set of simultaneous transmissions (c̃), allocating transmissions to those additional c-c̃ channels could enlarge the distance between the co-channel transmissions; the larger co-channel distance then allows a higher transmission power for higher link capacity. The finding of this paper specifically indicate that by exploiting the co-channel enlarging effect with power, one can realize the following gain on the capacity for MR-MC wireless networks: (i) In the channel-constraint region (c̃ <; c <; nφ/2), if each node augments its power from the minimum Pminto Pminc/c̃α/2, then a gain of Θ(log(c/c̃)α/2) is achieved; (ii) In the power-constraint region (c ≥ nφ/2), if each node sends at the maximum power level, Pmax= Pmin.nKor Pmin.2nφ/2, depending on the power availability at a node, then a gain of Θ(log n) or Θ(n) is achieved, respectively.

