Integrated Intermediate Waveband and Wavelength Switching for Optical WDM Mesh Networks. Integrated optics; Optical fiber networks; Wavelength division multiplexing; WDM networks; Mesh networks; Costs; Throughput; Telecommunication traffic; Optical devices; High speed optical techniques. 

Complexity of Wavelength Assignment in Optical Network Optimization. Wavelength assignment; Optical fiber networks; Optical design; Optical fiber devices; Wavelength division multiplexing; Costs; Intelligent networks; Design optimization; Wavelength routing; Optical wavelength conversion. 

Optical switching networks with minimum number of limited range wavelength converters. photonic switching systems; optical wavelength conversion; telecommunication traffic; multicast communication; wavelength division multiplexing; optical fibre networks; wavelength converters; nonblocking optical cross-connect; unicast traffic pattern; multicast traffic pattern; wavelength-division-multiplexing; WDM; optical switching networks; Optical fiber networks; Optical wavelength conversion; Wavelength division multiplexing; High speed optical techniques; WDM networks; Optical fiber communication; Communication switching; Unicast; Costs; Optical interconnections. We study the problem of determining the minimum number of limited range wavelength converters needed to construct strictly, wide-sense, and rearrangeably nonblocking optical cross-connects for both unicast and multicast traffic patterns. We give the exact formula to compute this number for rearrangeably and wide-sense nonblocking cross-connects under both the unicast and multicast cases. We also give optimal cross-connect constructions with respect to the number of limited-range wavelength converters.

Multiwavelength optical networks with limited wavelength conversion. wavelength division multiplexing; optical fibre networks; network topology; telecommunication traffic; channel capacity; multiwavelength optical networks; lightpaths; wavelength division multiplexed networks; limited wavelength conversion; WDM; channel assignment; ring networks; selective pairwise wavelength conversion; star network; fixed wavelength conversion; hub node; network topology; traffic-carrying capacity; Optical fiber networks; Optical wavelength conversion; Wavelength division multiplexing; WDM networks; Optical fibers; Wavelength routing; Circuits; Asynchronous transfer mode; Milling machines; Rivers. This paper proposes optical wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) networks with limited wavelength conversion that can efficiently support lightpaths (connections) between nodes. Each lightpath follows a route in the network and must be assigned a channel along each link in its route. The load /spl lambda//sub max/ of a set of lightpath requests is the maximum over all links of the number of lightpaths that use the link. At least /spl lambda//sub max/ wavelengths will be needed to assign channels to the lightpaths. If the network has full wavelength conversion capabilities then /spl lambda//sub max/ wavelengths are sufficient to perform the channel assignment. We propose ring networks with a fixed wavelength conversion capability within the nodes that can support all lightpath request sets with load /spl lambda//sub max/ at most W-1, where W is the number of wavelengths in each link. We also propose ring networks with selective pairwise wavelength conversion capability within the nodes that can support all lightpath request sets with load /spl lambda//sub max/ at most W. We also propose a star network with fixed wavelength conversion capability at its hub node that can support all lightpath request sets with load /spl lambda//sub max/ at most W. We extend this result to tree networks and networks with arbitrary topologies. These results show that significant improvements in traffic-carrying capacity can be obtained in WDM network by providing a very limited wavelength conversion capability within the network.

A generalized framework for analyzing time-space switched optical networks. wavelength division multiplexing; time division multiplexing; optical frequency conversion; telecommunication traffic; optical fibre networks; switching networks; generalized framework; time-space switched optical networks; photonic switching; all-optical time switched networks; wavelength division multiplexing; bandwidth granularity; WDM; fiber bandwidth; time division multiplexing; multiple traffic streams; bandwidth sharing; wavelength converters; time slot interchangers; network blocking performance; heterogeneous switching architecture; generalized network model; Trunk Switched Network; analytical model; time-space switch; multi-wavelength TDM switched network; Optical fiber networks; Optical wavelength conversion; Bandwidth; Wavelength division multiplexing; Telecommunication traffic; Time division multiplexing; Wavelength conversion; WDM networks; All-optical networks; Analytical models. Previous advances in photonic switching have paved the way for realizing all-optical time switched networks. The current technology of wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) offers bandwidth granularity that match peak electronic transmission speed by dividing the fiber bandwidth into multiple wavelengths. However, the bandwidth of a single wavelength is too large for certain traffic. Time division multiplexing (TDM) allows multiple traffic streams to share the bandwidth of a wavelength efficiently. While introducing wavelength converters and time slot interchangers improve the network blocking performance, it is often of interest to know the incremental benefits offered by every additional stage of switching. As all-optical networks in future are expected to employ heterogeneous switching architectures, it is necessary to have generalized network model that allows one to study these networks under a unified framework. In this paper, a network model, called the Trunk Switched Network (TSN), is proposed to facilitate modeling and analysis of such networks. An analytical model for evaluating the blocking performance of a class of TSN's has also been developed. Using the analytical model, it is shown that a significant performance improvement is obtained with a time-space switch with no wavelength conversion at each node in a multi-wavelength TDM switched network.

CayleyNet: a multihop WDM-based lightwave network. network topology; wavelength division multiplexing; optical links; performance evaluation; telecommunication network routing; hypercube networks; multihop WDM-based lightwave network; CayleyNet; wavelength division multiplexing; terabit lightwave networks; virtual topologies; four-neighbor connection; performance; channel efficiency; throughput; network size; transmission distance; 1 Tbit/s; Spread spectrum communication; Network topology; Bidirectional control; Frequency; Wavelength division multiplexing; Optical fibers; Optical transmitters; Telecommunication network topology; Performance analysis; Throughput. A multihop, wavelength division multiplex (WDM)-based network, CayleyNet, is proposed for the realization of terabit lightwave networks. CayleyNets are attractive virtual topologies because they support the largest number of nodes for four-neighbor connection in a range of diameters. In general, CayleyNets are bi-directional and there are N=p/spl times/k nodes, where p is a prime and k is a factor of p-1. The analysis shows that CayleyNet has a similar performance in channel efficiency, total and user throughput as the ShuffleNet with N=4/sup kspl times/k. However, CayleyNet has the advantages of a more flexible network size and symmetric transmission distance. Compared with the N=2/sup kspl times/k ShuffleNet and toroidal mesh, the CayleyNet has a superior performance.

Comparison of wavelength-interchanging and wavelength-selective cross-connects in multiwavelength all-optical networks. wavelength division multiplexing; optical fibre networks; photonic switching systems; probability; network topology; telecommunication traffic; wavelength selective cross-connects; wavelength interchanging cross-connects; multiwavelength all-optical networks; blocking probability; multiple fiber links; probability analysis; fiber gain calculations; network topology; traffic; simulations; analytical results; WDM; Optical buffering; Optical fiber networks; All-optical networks; Telecommunication traffic; Capacity planning; Wavelength division multiplexing; Bandwidth; Switching circuits; Switches; Intelligent networks. We quantify the benefits of wavelength interchanging in terms of the required capacity and the blocking probability. Most of the previous work on this subject assumed single-fiber links; we study networks with multiple fibers, extend Barry's (see Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM '95, vol.2, p.402, 1995) probability analysis to the multifiber case, and compare those results with fiber gain calculations in exemplary networks. We quantify the gain in the blocking probability when wavelength interchanging cross-connects are used compared to the case when wavelength-selective cross-connects are used, and show that this gain decreases rapidly with an increasing number of fibers on a link. The formulation captures the effects of the topology and the traffic on this gain. Calculations and simulations are performed which verify the analytical results.

Cost effective traffic grooming in WDM rings. telecommunication traffic; cost effective traffic grooming; WDM rings; optical wavelength division multiplexed rings; OWDM rings; overall network cost; transceivers; terminating equipment; higher-layer electronic processing equipment; dynamic traffic streams; time varying traffic streams; point-to-point ring; WDM links; opto-electronic processing; wide sense nonblocking property; rearrangeably nonblocking property; Costs; Wavelength division multiplexing; Transceivers; Optical fiber networks; Telecommunication traffic; Optical sensors; Optical interconnections; WDM networks; Telecommunication network topology; Add-drop multiplexers. We provide network designs for optical wavelength division multiplexed (OWDM) rings that minimize overall network cost, rather than just the number of wavelengths needed. The network cost includes the cost of the transceivers required at the nodes as well as the number of wavelengths. The transceiver cost includes the cost of terminating equipment as well as higher-layer electronic processing equipment, and in practice, can dominate over the cost of the number of wavelengths in the network. The networks support dynamic (time varying) traffic streams that are at lower rates (e.g., OC-3, 155 Mb/s) than the lightpath capacities (e.g., OC-48, 2.5 Gb/s). A simple OWDM ring is the point-to-point ring, where traffic is transported on WDM links optically, but switched through nodes electronically. Although the network is efficient in using link bandwidth, it has high electronic and opto-electronic processing costs. Two OWDM ring networks are given that have similar performance but are less expensive. Two other OWDM ring networks are considered that are nonblocking, where one has a wide sense nonblocking property and the other has a rearrangeably nonblocking property. All the networks are compared using the cost criteria of number of wavelengths and number of transceivers.

A time-wavelength assignment algorithm for a WDM star network. local area networks; metropolitan area networks; optical links; time division multiplexing; wavelength division multiplexing; LAN; MAN; tuning time minimisation; optical networks; time-wavelength assignment algorithm; WDM star network; transmission duration; packet transmission time; TDM/WDM schedule; Wavelength division multiplexing; WDM networks; Time division multiplexing; Switches; Optical transmitters; Bandwidth; Laser tuning; Optical receivers; Optical fiber networks; Optical packet switching. The first time-wavelength assignment algorithm for wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) star-based local and metropolitan area networks is presented. The algorithm incorporates the unique aspects of WDM communication such as a number of tunable transmitters and receivers at each concentrator, the tuning time, and a limited number of wavelengths. The transmission duration is composed of two elements: the packet transmission time, and the overhead incurred due to the tunability of the system's transmitters and receivers. For a given traffic matrix, the algorithm obtains a TDM/WDM schedule with minimal packet transmission duration, while minimizing the tuning time.

Analysis of sparse-partial wavelength conversion in wavelength-routed WDM networks. wavelength division multiplexing; optical wavelength conversion; telecommunication network routing; optical fibre networks; sparse-partial wavelength conversion network; wavelength-routed WDM network; optical network; full-complete wavelength conversion capability; Intelligent networks; WDM networks; Optical wavelength conversion; Wavelength conversion; Wavelength routing; Wavelength division multiplexing; Optical switches; Computer science; Spine; Costs. Wavelength conversion has been shown as one of the key techniques to improve blocking performance in a wavelength-routed all-optical network. Given that wavelength converters nowadays remain very expensive, how to make effective use of a limited number of wavelength converters becomes an important issue. We propose sparse-partial wavelength conversion (SPWC) network architecture with the inherent flexibility that can facilitate network carriers to migrate the optical backbone to support wavelength conversion. We demonstrate that this network architecture can significantly save the number of wavelength converters, yet achieving excellent blocking performance. Theoretical and simulation results indicate that, the performance of a wavelength-routed WDM network with only 1-5%of wavelength conversion capability is very close to that with full-complete wavelength conversion capability.

