Efficient dynamic spectrum sharing through rate compensation and spectrum handoff. cognitive radio; radio spectrum management; wireless channels; dynamic spectrum sharing; rate compensation; spectrum handoff; cognitive radio networks; cognitive radio users; rate requirement; unavailable channels; handoff delays; access contention; Resource management; Cognitive radio; Availability; Bandwidth; Delays; Dynamic scheduling. In this work, we propose a heuristic for dynamic spectrum sharing in cognitive radio networks. The concept of rate compensation is introduced so that cognitive radio users are able to achieve their rate requirement by performing adequately spectrum handoffs. Indeed, performing spectrum handoff can increase the achieved rate obtained by moving from unavailable channels to available ones. However, handoffs should also be reduced to decrease handoff delays and access contention in the network which can in turn impact the achieved rate.

Utility-based cooperative spectrum sensing scheduling in cognitive radio networks. cognitive radio; cooperative communication; evolutionary computation; game theory; probability; radio networks; radio spectrum management; wireless channels; utility-based cooperative spectrum sensing scheduling; cognitive radio networks; C3S; multiple primary channel; SU; energy conservation; evolutionary game theory; entropy based coalition formation algorithm; detection probability; false alarm rate; M primary channel; N secondary user; energy consumption; Sensors; Entropy; Games; Cognitive radio; Uncertainty; Energy consumption; History; Cognitive radio networks; cooperative spectrum sensing; free rider; evolutionary game; coalition formation. In this paper, we consider the problem of cooperative spectrum sensing scheduling (C3S) in a cognitive radio network when there exist multiple primary channels. Deviated from the existing research our work focuses on a scenario in which each secondary user has the freedom to decide whether or not to participate in cooperative spectrum sensing; if not, the SU becomes a free rider who can eavesdrop the decision about the channel status made by others. Such a mechanism can conserve the energy for spectrum sensing at a risk of scarifying the spectrum sensing performance. To overcome this problem, we address the following two questions: “which action (contributing to spectrum sensing or not) to take?” and “which channel to sense?” To answer the first question, we model our framework as an evolutionary game in which each SU makes its decision based on its utility history, and takes an action more frequently if it brings a relatively higher utility. We also develop an entropy based coalition formation algorithm to answer the second question, where each SU always chooses the coalition (channel) that brings the most information regarding the status of the corresponding channel. All the SUs selecting the same channel to sense form a coalition. Our simulation study indicates that the proposed scheme can guarantee the detection probability at a low false alarm rate.

Improved rendezvous algorithms for heterogeneous cognitive radio networks. cognitive radio; radio links; radio spectrum management; rendezvous algorithms; heterogeneous cognitive radio networks; HCRN; spectrum scarcity problem; communication link; licensed spectrum; moving traversing pointers; MTP algorithm; Sensors; Algorithm design and analysis; Cognitive radio; Conferences; Computers; Wireless sensor networks; Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network; Rendezvous; Fully available spectrum; Partially available spectrum. Cognitive radio networks (CRNs) have been proposed to solve the spectrum scarcity problem. One of their fundamental procedures is to construct a communication link on a common channel for the users, which is referred as rendezvous. In reality, the capability to sense the spectrum may vary from user to user, and such users form what is known as a heterogeneous cognitive radio network (HCRN). The licensed spectrum is divided in to n channels, U = {1, 2,..., n}. We denote the capability of user i as Ci⊆ U and the set of available channels (i.e. the channels not occupied by the paying users) as Vi⊆ Ci. We study the rendezvous problem in HCRN under two circumstances: fully available spectrum (Vi= Ci) and partially available spectrum (Vi≠ Ci). For any two users a, b, we propose the Traversing Pointer (TP) algorithm that guarantees rendezvous in O(max{|Ca|,|Cb|}log log n) time slots for the fully available spectrum scenario. This result is only O (log log n) larger than our constructive lower bound. Moreover, it removes an O(min{|Ca|, |Cb|}) factor as compared to the state-of-the-art result (O(|Ca||Cb|) in [26]). For the partially available spectrum scenario, we propose the Moving Traversing Pointers (MTP) algorithm to guarantee rendezvous in O((max{|Va|, |Vb|})2log log n) time slots, which works more efficiently than the previous best result (O(|Ca||Cb|) in [25]) in various circumstances. We also conduct extensive simulations and the results corroborate our analysis.

Fast Rendezvous for Spectrum-Agile IoT Devices with Limited Channel Hopping Capability. cognitive radio; Internet of Things; radio spectrum management; software radio; wireless channels; rendezvous delay; symmetric random CH scheme; Modular Modified Clock scheme; spectrum graphs; possible channels; spectrum slice graphs; CH capability limits; low-complexity rendezvous scheme; limited sensing capacity; long frequency switching time; unlimited CH capability; DSA nodes; CH patterns; control channel; dynamic spectrum access; idle frequency spectrums; software-defined radio; IoT nodes; explosive number; limited channel hopping capability; spectrum-agile IoT devices; Bandwidth; Tuning; Sensors; Time-frequency analysis; Wireless communication; Conferences; Electronic mail. The explosive number of IoT nodes and adoption of software-defined radio have enabled an efficient method of exploiting idle frequency spectrums called dynamic spectrum access (DSA). The foremost problem in DSA is for a pair of nodes to rendezvous and form a control channel prior to communication. Existing schemes require a channel hopping (CH) pattern with length O(N2), which is overly complex especially when the number of channels N is large. Moreover, the CH patterns are designed assuming DSA nodes have unlimited CH capability, which is hardly satisfied by nodes with long frequency switching time and limited sensing capacity. In this paper, we design a low-complexity rendezvous scheme that account for CH capability limits. The CH capability is captured using spectrum slice graphs that describe the possible channels for the next hop, given the currently-visited channel. By viewing the CH patterns as random walks over the spectrum graphs, we assign the walks with optimal transition probabilities that achieve the smallest rendezvous delay. The resulting symmetric random CH (S-RCH) scheme, which is suitable for IoT nodes without predetermined roles, achieves a lower rendezvous delay than existing Modular Modified Clock (MMC) scheme and offers more than 80 % successful rendezvous in mobile networks.

Fast Rendezvous for Spectrum-Agile IoT Devices with Limited Channel Hopping Capability. cognitive radio; Internet of Things; radio spectrum management; software radio; wireless channels; rendezvous delay; symmetric random CH scheme; Modular Modified Clock scheme; spectrum graphs; possible channels; spectrum slice graphs; CH capability limits; low-complexity rendezvous scheme; limited sensing capacity; long frequency switching time; unlimited CH capability; DSA nodes; CH patterns; control channel; dynamic spectrum access; idle frequency spectrums; software-defined radio; IoT nodes; explosive number; limited channel hopping capability; spectrum-agile IoT devices; Bandwidth; Tuning; Sensors; Time-frequency analysis; Wireless communication; Conferences; Electronic mail. The explosive number of IoT nodes and adoption of software-defined radio have enabled an efficient method of exploiting idle frequency spectrums called dynamic spectrum access (DSA). The foremost problem in DSA is for a pair of nodes to rendezvous and form a control channel prior to communication. Existing schemes require a channel hopping (CH) pattern with length O(N2), which is overly complex especially when the number of channels N is large. Moreover, the CH patterns are designed assuming DSA nodes have unlimited CH capability, which is hardly satisfied by nodes with long frequency switching time and limited sensing capacity. In this paper, we design a low-complexity rendezvous scheme that account for CH capability limits. The CH capability is captured using spectrum slice graphs that describe the possible channels for the next hop, given the currently-visited channel. By viewing the CH patterns as random walks over the spectrum graphs, we assign the walks with optimal transition probabilities that achieve the smallest rendezvous delay. The resulting symmetric random CH (S-RCH) scheme, which is suitable for IoT nodes without predetermined roles, achieves a lower rendezvous delay than existing Modular Modified Clock (MMC) scheme and offers more than 80 % successful rendezvous in mobile networks.

Jump-stay based channel-hopping algorithm with guaranteed rendezvous for cognitive radio networks. cognitive radio; radio spectrum management; synchronisation; jump-stay based channel-hopping algorithm; guaranteed rendezvous; cognitive radio networks; wireless spectrum; communication links; spectrum management; channel contention; blind rendezvous; common control channel; jump-pattern; stay-pattern; time synchronization; time-to-rendezvous; Algorithm design and analysis; Indexes; Cognitive radio; Servers; Clocks; Synchronization; cognitive radio; blind rendezvous; channel hopping. Cognitive radio networks (CRNs) have emerged as advanced and promising paradigm to exploit the existing wireless spectrum opportunistically. It is crucial for users in CRNs to search for neighbors via rendezvous process and thereby establish the communication links to exchange the information necessary for spectrum management and channel contention etc. This paper focuses on the design of algorithms for blind rendezvous, i.e., rendezvous without using any central controller and common control channel (CCC). We propose a jump-stay based channel-hopping (CH) algorithm for blind rendezvous. The basic idea is to generate CH sequence in rounds and each round consists of a jump-pattern and a stay-pattern. Users “jump” on available channels in the jump-pattern while “stay” on a specific channel in the stay-pattern. Compared with the existing CH algorithms, our algorithm achieves the following advances: i) guaranteed rendezvous without the need of time-synchronization; ii) applicability to rendezvous of multi-user and multi-hop scenarios. We derive the maximum time-to-rendezvous (TTR) and the upper-bound of expected TTR of our algorithm for both 2-user and multi-user scenarios (shown in Table I). Extensive simulations are further conducted to evaluate performance of our algorithm.

Spectrum shaping via network coding in cognitive radio networks. cognitive radio; data communication; network coding; spectrum shaping; network coding; cognitive radio networks; primary users; data transmissions; spectrum availability; secondary users; spectrum holes; adaptive channel sensing; dynamic spectrum access; Sensors; Network coding; Throughput; Markov processes; Automatic repeat request; Cognitive radio; Adaptive systems; Cognitive radio networks; network coding; spectrum shaping; dynamic spectrum access. We consider a cognitive radio network where primary users (PUs) employ network coding for data transmissions. We view network coding as a spectrum shaper, in the sense that it increases spectrum availability to secondary users (SUs) and offers more structure of spectrum holes, which in turn improves the predictability of the primary spectrum. With this spectrum shaping effect of network coding, each SU can carry out adaptive channel sensing by dynamically updating the list of the (predicted) idle PU channels and giving priority to these channels for spectrum sensing. This dynamic spectrum access approach with network coding improves how SUs detect and utilize spectrum holes over PU channels. Our results show that compared to the existing approaches based on retransmission, both PUs and SUs can achieve higher stable throughput, thanks to the spectrum shaping effect of network coding.

Pilot-based full-duplex spectrum-sensing and multichannel-MAC over non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks. access protocols; cognitive radio; mobility management (mobile radio); radio networks; radio spectrum management; signal detection; wireless channels; pilot-based medium access control protocol; P-MAC protocol; nontime-slotted cognitive radio networks; primary user; secondary users; multichannel-MAC; PUs reactivation; frequently unexpected handoffs; reactivation-failure; full-duplex spectrum-sensing; frequently unexpected hand-offs; SUs; CRNs; Throughput; Sensors; Wireless sensor networks; Protocols; Cognitive radio; Wireless networks; Non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks; hand-offs among secondary users; pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing; pilot-based medium access control protocol. In the non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks (CRNs), the synchronization between PUs and secondary users (SUs) cannot be guaranteed, resulting in two challenging problems: the reactivation-failure of PUs and the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. The reactivation-failure of PUs is the incident that the SUs cannot detect the PUs' reactivation when the SUs are occupying the channels to transmit their data in non-time-slotted CRNs. The frequently unexpected handoffs among SUs are the events that the SU cannot distinguish between the PUs' reactivation and the other SUs' contention, thus causing many unexpected hand-offs among SUs, which severely degrade the achieved throughput of SUs in non-time-slotted CRNs. Employing the energy-detection based wireless full-duplex spectrum sensing schemes, the PUs' reactivation-failure problem can be efficiently solved, thus guaranteeing the required throughput of PUs. However, the key of CRNs is not only the throughput-guarantees for PUs, but also the throughput-boosts for SUs. To optimize the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs, in this paper we develop the pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing (PF-SS) scheme and the pilot-based medium access control (P-MAC) protocol to not only guarantee the required throughput of PUs, but also significantly increase the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs. Using the PF-SS scheme, the SUs can identify whether the PUs' signal or the SUs' signal, thus significantly reducing the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. Then, based on the PF-SS scheme, the P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs. We conduct extensive numerical analyses to show that our developed PF-SS scheme and P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs while guaranteeing the required throughput for PUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs.

Pilot-based full-duplex spectrum-sensing and multichannel-MAC over non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks. access protocols; cognitive radio; mobility management (mobile radio); radio networks; radio spectrum management; signal detection; wireless channels; pilot-based medium access control protocol; P-MAC protocol; nontime-slotted cognitive radio networks; primary user; secondary users; multichannel-MAC; PUs reactivation; frequently unexpected handoffs; reactivation-failure; full-duplex spectrum-sensing; frequently unexpected hand-offs; SUs; CRNs; Throughput; Sensors; Wireless sensor networks; Protocols; Cognitive radio; Wireless networks; Non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks; hand-offs among secondary users; pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing; pilot-based medium access control protocol. In the non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks (CRNs), the synchronization between PUs and secondary users (SUs) cannot be guaranteed, resulting in two challenging problems: the reactivation-failure of PUs and the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. The reactivation-failure of PUs is the incident that the SUs cannot detect the PUs' reactivation when the SUs are occupying the channels to transmit their data in non-time-slotted CRNs. The frequently unexpected handoffs among SUs are the events that the SU cannot distinguish between the PUs' reactivation and the other SUs' contention, thus causing many unexpected hand-offs among SUs, which severely degrade the achieved throughput of SUs in non-time-slotted CRNs. Employing the energy-detection based wireless full-duplex spectrum sensing schemes, the PUs' reactivation-failure problem can be efficiently solved, thus guaranteeing the required throughput of PUs. However, the key of CRNs is not only the throughput-guarantees for PUs, but also the throughput-boosts for SUs. To optimize the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs, in this paper we develop the pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing (PF-SS) scheme and the pilot-based medium access control (P-MAC) protocol to not only guarantee the required throughput of PUs, but also significantly increase the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs. Using the PF-SS scheme, the SUs can identify whether the PUs' signal or the SUs' signal, thus significantly reducing the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. Then, based on the PF-SS scheme, the P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs. We conduct extensive numerical analyses to show that our developed PF-SS scheme and P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs while guaranteeing the required throughput for PUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs.

Robust threshold design for cooperative sensing in cognitive radio networks. cognitive radio; optimisation; radio networks; radio spectrum management; robust threshold design; cooperative sensing; cognitive radio networks; cognitive radio systems; licensed systems; secondary users; spectrum sensing; unreliable detection performance; sensing performance; distribution uncertainty; primary signals; optimal sensing design; robust optimization problem; iterative algorithm; optimal decision threshold; Sensors; Robustness; Uncertainty; Optimization; Cognitive radio; Vectors; Noise; Cognitive radio; spectrum sensing; robust optimization; distribution uncertainty. The successful coexistence of cognitive radio systems and licensed systems requires the secondary users to have the capability of sensing and keeping track of primary transmissions. While existing spectrum sensing methods usually assume known distributions of the primary signals, such an assumption is often not true in practice. As a result, applying existing sensing methods directly will often lead to unreliable detection performance in practical networks. In this paper, we try to improve the sensing performance under the distribution uncertainty of primary signals. We formulate the optimal sensing design as a robust optimization problem, and propose an iterative algorithm to determine the optimal decision threshold for each user. Extensive simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm.

