{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.662962', u'author': u'M. Krunz and A. Makowski', u'title': u'A source model for VBR video traffic based on M/G//spl infin/ input processes', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Statistical evidence suggests that the autocorrelation function of a compressed-video sequence is better captured by /spl rho/(k)=e/sup -/spl beta//spl radic/(k)/ than by /spl rho/(k)=/sup -/spl beta//=e/sup -/spl beta/ log k/ (long-range dependence) or /spl rho/(k)=e/sup -/spl beta/k/. A video model with such a correlation structure is introduced based on the so-called M/G//spl infin/ input processes. Though not Markovian, the model exhibits short-range dependence. Using the queueing performance under "real" video traffic as a reference, we study via simulations the queueing performance under two video models: the M/G//spl infin/ model and the fractional ARIMA (F-ARIMA) model (which exhibits LRD). Our results indicate that the M/G//spl infin/ model is much more accurate in predicting the actual queueing performance than the F-ARIMA model. Furthermore, only /spl Oscr/(n) computations are required to generate an M/G//spl infin/ trace of length n, compared to /spl Oscr/(n/sup 2/) for a F-ARIMA trace.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1441-1448 vol.3', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'queueing theory;telecommunication traffic;correlation methods;visual communication;source model;VBR video traffic;M/G//spl infin/ input processes;autocorrelation function;compressed-video sequence;correlation structure;short-range dependence;queueing performance;simulations;fractional ARIMA model;F-ARIMA model;long-range dependence;Traffic control;Telecommunication traffic;Autocorrelation;Video compression;Integrated circuit modeling;Predictive models;Ethernet networks;Local area networks;Wide area networks;Stochastic processes', 'ID': u'662962', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2002.1019380', u'author': u'S. Vanichpun and A. A. Makowski', u'title': u'Positive correlations and buffer occupancy: lower bounds via supermodular ordering', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We use recent advances from the theory of multivariate stochastic orderings to formalize the "folk theorem" to the effect that positive correlations lead to increased buffer occupancy and larger buffer levels at a discrete-time infinite capacity multiplexer queue. Input sequences are compared in the supermodular (sm) ordering and buffer contents in the increasing convex (icx) ordering, respectively. Three popular classes of (discrete-time) traffic models are discussed, namely the fractional Gaussian noise traffic model, the on-off source model and the M|G|/spl infin/ traffic model. The independent version of an input process in each of these classes of traffic models is a member of the same class. In varying degree of generality, we show that this independent version is smaller than the input sequence itself, and that the corresponding buffer content processes are similarly ordered.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1298-1306 vol.3', u'year': u'2002', u'keywords': u'correlation theory;buffer storage;telecommunication traffic;queueing theory;stochastic processes;Gaussian noise;packet switching;positive correlations;buffer occupancy;lower bounds;supermodular ordering;multivariate stochastic orderings;discrete-time multiplexer queue;infinite capacity multiplexer queue;input sequences;increasing convex ordering;fractional Gaussian noise traffic model;on-off source model;M|G|/spl infin/ traffic model;Traffic control;Buffer storage;Queueing analysis;Educational institutions;Stochastic systems;Multiplexing;Gaussian noise;Design engineering;Space stations;Contracts', 'ID': u'1019380', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings.Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.659671', u'author': u'N. Likhanov and R. R. Mazumdar', u'title': u'Cell loss asymptotics in buffers fed with a large number of independent stationary sources', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We derive asymptotically exact expressions for buffer overflow probabilities and cell loss probabilities for a finite buffer which is fed by a large number of independent and stationary sources. The technique is based on scaling, measure change and local limit theorems and extends the results of Courcoubetis and Weber (see J. Appl. Prob., vol.33, no.3, p.886-903, 1996) on buffer overflow asymptotics. We discuss the cases when the buffers are of the same order as the transmission bandwidth as well as the case of bufferless multiplexers. Moreover we show that the results hold for a wide variety of traffic sources including on/off sources with heavy-tailed distributed on periods which are typical candidates for so-called "self-similar" inputs showing that the asymptotic cell loss probability behaves in much the same manner for such sources as for Markovian type of sources which has important implications for statistical multiplexing. The paper concludes with comparison of the theoretical results with simulations.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'339-346 vol.1', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'buffer storage;cell loss asymptotics;traffic sources;independent stationary sources;asymptotically exact expressions;buffer overflow probabilities;scaling;local limit theorems;buffer overflow asymptotics;transmission bandwidth;bufferless multiplexers;on/off sources;heavy-tailed distribution;self-similar inputs;asymptotic cell loss probability;Markovian type sources;statistical multiplexing;simulations;measure change;ATM;broadband networks;finite capacity queues;discrete-time model;Bandwidth;Quality of service;Buffer overflow;Asynchronous transfer mode;Traffic control;Probability distribution;Delay;Switches;Multiplexing;Telephony', 'ID': u'659671', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2001.916620', u'author': u'M. Krunz', u'title': u'On the limitations of the variance-time test for inference of long-range dependence', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'The objective of this paper is to demonstrate the limitations of the variance-time (VT) test as a statistical tool for inferring long-range dependence (LRD) in network traffic. Since the early Bellcore studies, LRD has been in the center of a continuous debate within the teletraffic community. The controversy is typically focused on the utility of LRD models to predict the performance at network buffers. Our work here is not meant to advocate one modeling approach over another, but to point out (experimentally and theoretically) to the caveats in using the VT test as a tool for detecting LRD. We do that by deriving simple analytical expressions for the slope of the aggregated variance in three autocorrelated traffic models: M/G//spl infin/ process (short-range dependent (SRD) but non-Markovian), the discrete autoregressive of order one model (SRD Markovian), and the fractional ARIMA process (LRD). Our main result is that the VT test often indicates, falsely, the existence of an LRD structure (i.e., H>0.5) in synthetically generated traces from the two SRD models. The bias in the VT test, however, diminishes monotonically with the length of the trace. We provide some guidelines on selecting the minimum trace length so that the bias is negligible.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1254-1260 vol.3', u'year': u'2001', u'keywords': u'telecommunication traffic;statistical analysis;queueing theory;correlation methods;Markov processes;autoregressive moving average processes;variance-time test limitations;long-range dependence inference;statistical tool;teletraffic;LRD models;network buffers;performance prediction;aggregated variance slope;autocorrelated traffic models;M/G//spl infin/ process;short-range dependent process;nonMarkovian process;discrete autoregressive order one model;SRD Markovian model;fractional ARIMA process;LRD structure;synthetically generated traces;VT test bias;minimum trace length selection;Testing;Traffic control;Telecommunication traffic;Predictive models;Autocorrelation;Bandwidth;Computer networks;Analysis of variance;Performance analysis;Guidelines', 'ID': u'916620', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2001. Conference on Computer Communications. Twentieth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Society (Cat. No.01CH37213)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2002.1019347', u'author': u'J. Cao and K. Ramanan', u'title': u'A Poisson limit for buffer overflow probabilities', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'A key criterion in the design of high-speed networks is the probability that the buffer content exceeds a given threshold. We consider n independent identical traffic sources modelled as point processes, which are fed into a link with speed proportional to n. Under fairly general assumptions on the input processes we show that the steady state probability of the buffer content exceeding a threshold b>0 tends to the corresponding probability assuming Poisson input processes. We verify the assumptions for a large class of long-range dependent sources commonly used to model data traffic. Our results show that with superposition, significant multiplexing gains can be achieved for even smaller buffers than suggested by previous results, which consider O(n) buffer size. Moreover, simulations show that for realistic values of the exceedance probability and moderate utilisations, convergence to the Poisson limit takes place at reasonable values of the number of sources superposed. This is particularly relevant for high-speed networks in which the cost of high-speed memory is significant.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'994-1003 vol.2', u'year': u'2002', u'keywords': u'Poisson distribution;buffer storage;queueing theory;telecommunication traffic;data communication;multiplexing;computer networks;Poisson limit;high-speed memory cost;buffer overflow probabilities;high-speed networks;independent identical traffic sources;Poisson input processes;long-range dependent sources;data traffic model;multiplexing gains;superposition;simulations;exceedance probability;convergence;point processes;steady state probability;Buffer overflow;Traffic control;Telecommunication traffic;Steady-state;High-speed networks;Costs;Tail;Asynchronous transfer mode;Probability;Switches', 'ID': u'1019347', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings.Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2001.916301', u'author': u'JiaFu He and K. Sohraby', u'title': u'A new analysis framework for discrete time queueing systems with general stochastic sources', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'This paper considers a general class of discrete time systems with batch arrivals and departures. Such models appear frequently in the teletraffic analysis of computer and communications networks. Our arrival models are assumed to be quite general. They could be independent and identically distributed (i.i.d) in successive slots, be periodic, be Markovian or described by the moving average time-series model, etc. Our solution framework is novel and unifying. It uses a combination of multi-dimensional generating functions and combinatorial analysis using extensions of classical ballot theorems. In general, we provide an explicit analytical expression as an infinite sum to obtain the system stationary probability distribution avoiding classical root finding methods, matrix analytical methodologies and finally spectral decomposition approaches. We provide a number of analytical and numerical examples including a simple multi-server model with i.i.d arrivals, an ATM multiplexer fed by a (random) number of periodic sources, and a new example considering the discrete moving average model for the arrival process where a simple closed-form expression for the stationary distribution of the system queue lengths is provided.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'1075-1084 vol.2', u'year': u'2001', u'keywords': u'discrete time systems;queueing theory;telecommunication traffic;moving average processes;Markov processes;time series;probability;asynchronous transfer mode;multiplexing equipment;packet switching;discrete time queueing systems;general stochastic sources;batch arrivals;batch departures;teletraffic analysis;communications networks;computer networks;general arrival models;independent identically distributed models;i.i.d models;periodic models;Markovian models;moving average time-series model;multidimensional generating functions;combinatorial analysis;ballot theorems;infinite sum;stationary probability distribution;multi-server model;i.i.d arrivals;ATM multiplexer;periodic sources;discrete moving average model;closed-form expression;system queue lengths;Queueing analysis;Stochastic systems;Performance analysis;Asynchronous transfer mode;Matrix decomposition;Cities and towns;Fluctuations;Random variables;Helium;Discrete time systems', 'ID': u'916301', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2001. Conference on Computer Communications. Twentieth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Society (Cat. No.01CH37213)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1999.751447', u'author': u'J. Choe and N. B. Shroff', u'title': u'Queueing analysis of high-speed multiplexers including long-range dependent arrival processes', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'With the advent of high-speed networks, a single link will carry hundreds or even thousands of applications. This results in a very natural application of the central limit theorem, to model the network traffic by a Gaussian stochastic processes. We study the tail probability P({Q>x}) of a queueing system when the input process is assumed to be a very general class of Gaussian processes which includes a large class of self similar or other types of long-range dependent Gaussian processes. For example, past work on fractional Brownian motion, and variations therein, are but a small subset of the work presented in this paper. This study is based on extreme value theory and we show that log P({Q>x})+m/sub x//2 grows at most on the order of logx, where m/sub x/ corresponds to the reciprocal of the maximum (normalized) variance of a Gaussian process directly related to the aggregate input process. The result is considerably stronger than the existing results in the literature based on large deviation theory, and we theoretically show that this improvement can be quite important in characterizing the asymptotic behavior of P({Q>x}). Through numerical examples, we also demonstrate that exp[-m/sub x//2] provides a very accurate estimate for a variety of long-range and short-range dependent input processes over the entire buffer range.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'617-624 vol.2', u'year': u'1999', u'keywords': u'multiplexing equipment;queueing theory;Gaussian processes;Brownian motion;probability;buffer storage;high-speed multiplexers;long-range dependent arrival processes;queueing analysis;high-speed networks;central limit theorem;network traffic;Gaussian stochastic processes;tail probability;queueing system;input process;self similar process;long-range dependent Gaussian processes;fractional Brownian motion;extreme value theory;maximum variance;normalized variance;aggregate input process;large deviation theory;asymptotic behavior;short-range dependent input process;buffer range;Queueing analysis;Multiplexing;Gaussian processes;High-speed networks;Telecommunication traffic;Traffic control;Stochastic processes;Tail;Brownian motion;Aggregates', 'ID': u'751447', u'booktitle': u"IEEE INFOCOM '99. Conference on Computer Communications. Proceedings. Eighteenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. The Future is Now (Cat. No.99CH36320)"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2001.916711', u'author': u'P. Jelenkovic and P. Momcilovic', u'title': u'Capacity regions for network multiplexers with heavy-tailed fluid on-off sources', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Consider a network multiplexer with a finite buffer fed by a superposition of independent heterogeneous on-off sources. An on-off source consists of a sequence of alternating independent activity and silence periods. During its activity period a source produces fluid with constant rate. For this system, under the assumption that the residual activity periods are intermediately regularly varying, we derive explicit and asymptotically exact formulas for approximating the stationary overflow probability and loss rate. The derived asymptotic formulas, in addition to their analytical tractability, exhibit excellent quantitative accuracy, which is illustrated by a number of simulation experiments. We demonstrate through examples how these results can be used for efficient computation of capacity regions for network switching elements. Furthermore, the results provide important insight into qualitative tradeoffs between the overflow probability, offered traffic load, available capacity, and buffer space. Overall, they provide a new set of tools for designing and provisioning of networks with heavy-tailed traffic streams.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'289-298 vol.1', u'year': u'2001', u'keywords': u'multiplexing;telecommunication traffic;queueing theory;probability;network multiplexer;heavy-tailed fluid on-off sources;independent heterogeneous on-off sources;independent activity periods;silence periods;residual activity periods;asymptotically exact formulas;stationary overflow probability;loss rate;simulation experiments;capacity regions;network switching elements;offered traffic load;available capacity;buffer space;heavy-tailed traffic streams;finite buffer fluid queue;Multiplexing;Telecommunication traffic;Traffic control;Tail;Quality of service;Streaming media;File servers;Computational modeling;Analytical models;Computer networks', 'ID': u'916711', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2001. Conference on Computer Communications. Twentieth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Society (Cat. No.01CH37213)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.659657', u'author': u'A. Lombardo and G. Morabito and G. Schembra', u'title': u'An accurate and treatable Markov model of MPEG-video traffic', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'An accurate and treatable Markov-based model for MPEG video traffic is proposed. Before reaching a definition of the model, a large number of MPEG video sequences are analyzed and their statistical characteristics are highlighted. Besides the well-known autocorrelation function, testifying the pseudo-periodicity of the sequence in the short term, and the gamma-shaped probability density function the correlation between different frames belonging to the same group of pictures (GOP) is also accurately studied. Then a structured model is proposed. Thanks to its two-level structure it is able to capture both the inter-GOP and the intra-GOP correlation. In order to obtain the first level of the model, the well-known inverse eigenvalue problem is solved in the discrete-time domain. Finally, the model is used to evaluate the loss probability in an ATM multiplexer loaded by an MPEG video source and an aggregate of external traffic. The accuracy of the model is evaluated by comparing the analytically obtained loss probability with the loss probability calculated by simulating the system using real traffic sequences as driven traces.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'217-224 vol.1', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'video coding;MPEG-video traffic;Markov model;video sequences;statistical characteristics;autocorrelation function;pseudo-periodic sequence;gamma-shaped probability density function;group of pictures;structured model;two-level structure;inter-GOP correlation;intra-GOP correlation;inverse eigenvalue problem;discrete-time domain;loss probability;ATM multiplexer;system simulation;real traffic sequences;Traffic control;Video sequences;Autocorrelation;Testing;Probability density function;Inverse problems;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions;Asynchronous transfer mode;Multiplexing;Aggregates', 'ID': u'659657', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.659673', u'author': u'M. Roughan and D. Veitch and M. Rumsewicz', u'title': u'Computing queue-length distributions for power-law queues', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'The interest sparked by observations of long-range dependent traffic in real networks has lead to a revival of interest in non-standard queueing systems. One such queueing system is the M/G/1 queue where the service-time distribution has infinite variance. The known results for such systems are asymptotic in nature, typically providing the asymptotic form for the tail of the workload distribution, simulation being required to learn about the rest of the distribution. Simulation however performs very poorly for such systems due to the large impact of rare events. We provide a method for numerically evaluating the entire distribution for the number of customers in the M/G/1 queue with power-law tail service-time. The method is computationally efficient and shown to be accurate through careful simulations. It can be directly extended to other queueing systems and more generally to many problems where the inversion of probability generating functions complicated by power-laws is at issue. Through the use of examples we study the limitations of simulation and show that information on the tail of the queue-length distribution is not always sufficient to answer significant performance questions. We also derive the asymptotic form of the number of customers in the system in the case of a service-time distribution with a regularly varying tail (e.g. infinite variance) and thus illustrate the techniques required to apply the method in other contexts.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'356-363 vol.1', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'queueing theory;queue-length distributions;power-law queues;long-range dependent traffic;nonstandard queueing systems;FIFO M/G/1 queue;service-time distribution;infinite variance;asymptotic systems;workload distribution tail;simulation;rare events;power-law tail service-time;probability generating functions inversion;performance;network data analysis;Distributed computing;Probability distribution;Traffic control;Telecommunication traffic;Discrete event simulation;Computational modeling;Tail;Power engineering computing;Software engineering;Australia', 'ID': u'659673', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
