{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2001.916250', u'author': u'P. Halvorsen and T. Plagemann and V. Goebel', u'title': u'Integrated error management for media-on-demand services', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Data servers for multimedia applications like news-on-demand represent a severe bottleneck, because a potentially (very) high number of users concurrently retrieve data with high data rates. In the Intermediate Storage Node Concept (INSTANCE) project, we develop a new architecture for media-on-demand servers that maximizes the number of concurrent clients a single server can support. Traditional bottlenecks, like copy operations, multiple copies of the same data element in main memory, and checksum calculation in communication protocols are avoided by applying three orthogonal techniques: zero-copy-one-copy memory architecture, network level framing, and integrated error management. We describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of our integrated error management mechanism. Our results show that the reuse of parity information from a RAID system as forward error correction information in the transport protocol reduces the server workload and enables smooth playout at the client.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'621-630 vol.2', u'year': u'2001', u'keywords': u'video on demand;multimedia communication;forward error correction;memory architecture;multimedia servers;research initiatives;RAID;transport protocols;magnetic disc storage;integrated error management;media-on-demand services;data servers;multimedia applications;high data rates;data retrieval;Intermediate Storage Node Concept;INSTANCE project;media-on-demand servers;copy operations;checksum calculation;communication protocols;zero-copy-one-copy memory architecture;orthogonal techniques;network level framing;integrated error management mechanism;parity information reuse;forward error correction information;FEC information;transport protocol;server workload reduction;magnetic disk;error correction codes;Network servers;Information retrieval;Protocols;Web server;Electrical capacitance tomography;Informatics;Memory management;Memory architecture;Communication system operations and management;Forward error correction', 'ID': u'916250', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2001. Conference on Computer Communications. Twentieth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Society (Cat. No.01CH37213)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.92', u'author': u'A. Todimala and B. Ramamurthy', u'title': u'Approximation Algorithms for Survivable Multicommodity Flow Problems with Applications to Network Design', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Approximation algorithms;Algorithm design and analysis;WDM networks;Optical design;Wavelength division multiplexing;High speed optical techniques;Optical fiber networks;Optical wavelength conversion;Wavelength routing;Polynomials', 'ID': u'4146745', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2010.5462018', u'author': u'H. Zang and F. Baccelli and J. Bolot', u'title': u'Bayesian Inference for Localization in Cellular Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, we present a general technique based on Bayesian inference to locate mobiles in cellular networks. We study the problem of localizing users in a cellular network for calls with information regarding only one base station and hence triangulation or trilateration cannot be performed. In our call data records, this happens more than 50% of time. We show how to localize mobiles based on our knowledge of the network layout and how to incorporate additional information such as round-trip-time and signal to noise and interference ratio (SINR) measurements. We study important parameters used in this Bayesian method through mining call data records and matching GPS records and obtain their distribution or typical values. We validate our localization technique in a commercial network with a few thousand emergency calls. The results show that the Bayesian method can reduce the localization error by 20% compared to a blind approach and the accuracy of localization can be further improved by refining the a priori user distribution in the Bayesian technique.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2010', u'keywords': u'Bayes methods;cellular radio;radiofrequency interference;cellular networks;Bayesian method;triangulation;trilateration;GPS records;localization technique;a priori user distribution;inference;Bayesian methods;Land mobile radio cellular systems;Base stations;Humans;Signal to noise ratio;USA Councils;Interference;Global Positioning System;Mobile handsets;Monitoring', 'ID': u'5462018', u'booktitle': u'2010 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.52', u'author': u'F. Kuo and H. Tschofenig and F. Meyer and X. Fu', u'title': u'Comparison Studies between Pre-Shared and Public Key Exchange Mechanisms for Transport Layer Security', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'The pre-shared key based mechanisms for Transport Layer Security (TLS) were recently standardized by the IETF to extend the set of ciphersuites by utilizing existing key management infrastructures. The benefit of pre-shared based mechanisms is the avoidance or reduction of the cryptographic operations used in public-key based mechanisms. However, so far there are no performance measurements for pre-shared key based ciphersuites available. In this paper, we present a systematic analysis and performance comparison between the pre-shared key exchange mechanisms and the standard public key exchange mechanisms in TLS. Our performance metrics are processing time and transmitted amount of data for a handshake establishment. Furthermore, the interaction between the overall TLS handshake duration and the network environment is evaluated. The results for different key exchange mechanisms are comparatively studied and the design choices of pre-shared key based key exchange mechanisms have been validated. Experimental results give details about the performance improvement of the pre-shared key based mechanisms compared to the standard public key based mechanisms.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-6', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'public key cryptography;transport layer security;public security;public key exchange mechanisms;preshared security;public cryptographic operations;Public key;Performance analysis;Data security;Public key cryptography;Measurement;Cryptographic protocols;Network servers;Data communication;Web server;Informatics', 'ID': u'4146705', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2002.1019401', u'author': u'Hoi-Sheung Wilson So and Ye Xia and J. Walrand', u'title': u'A robust acknowledgement scheme for unreliable flows', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"The increasing presence of UDP traffic in the Internet and the emergence of sensing applications which do not require full reliability motivates the search for a robust acknowledgement scheme for unreliable flows. TCP-styled cumulative ack relies on the eventual retransmission of all lost packets and hence cannot be used for unreliable flows. Our contribution is the design and analysis of a simple, yet robust acknowledgement scheme for unreliable flows. We show that our scheme achieves good performance even when the actual network conditions deviate from the designer's estimate. It works in networks having orders of magnitude difference in bandwidth and loss probability, with little variation of overhead and no change to the algorithms.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1500-1509 vol.3', u'year': u'2002', u'keywords': u'telecommunication traffic;transport protocols;Internet;performance evaluation;robust acknowledgement scheme;unreliable flows;UDP traffic;Internet;performance;loss probability;bandwidth;Robustness;Temperature sensors;Internet;Communication system traffic control;Error correction;Streaming media;Monitoring;Temperature distribution;Robust control;Feedback', 'ID': u'1019401', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings.Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2010.5462079', u'author': u'S. Ioannidis and L. Massoulie', u'title': u'Surfing the Blogosphere: Optimal Personalized Strategies for Searching the Web', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"We propose a distributed mechanism for finding websurfing strategies that is inspired by the StumbleUpon recommendation engine. Each day, a websurfer visits a sequence of websites recommended by our mechanism, and selects one that matches her daily interests. We formally show that even with this minimal feedback from the surfer-the selected website-our mechanism finds a websurfing strategy that matches the surfer's interests optimally. The surfer does not need to know-or declare-what her daily interests are before she is presented with content she likes. Moreover, our mechanism is content-agnostic: it is oblivious to the nature of the content the surfer selects. In addition, we study how the performance of this mechanism can be improved if surfers with similar interests share their feedback. Such surfers can be found indirectly, e.g., if they are all registered as friends in a social networking application. Our analysis characterizes the improvement in the mechanism's accuracy, based on the size of the group and the degree of similarity between the surfers' interests. In particular, we show that sharing feedback can significantly accelerate the convergence of our mechanism. Our results are derived analytically using stochastic approximation techniques, but are also validated through a numerical study.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2010', u'keywords': u'Internet;optimisation;recommender systems;blogosphere surfing;optimal personalized strategies;Web searching;recommendation engine;content agnostic mechanism;social networking application;Feedback;Search engines;Social network services;Communications Society;Acceleration;Convergence;Stochastic processes;Internet;Blogs', 'ID': u'5462079', u'booktitle': u'2010 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.356', u'author': u'R. Fonseca and P. Sharma and S. Banerjee and S. -. Lee and S. Basu', u'title': u'Distributed Querying of Internet Distance Information', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-6', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Delay;Databases;Network servers;Web and internet services;Bandwidth;Position measurement;Availability;IP networks;Economic indicators;Error analysis', 'ID': u'4147009', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.245', u'author': u'T. Bu and Y. Liu and D. Towsley', u'title': u'On the TCP-Friendliness of VoIP Traffic', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Telecommunication traffic;Application software;Bandwidth;Internet;Throughput;Communication system traffic control;Transport protocols;Traffic control;Aggregates;Computer networks', 'ID': u'4146898', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.659645', u'author': u'M. Mehdi Vaez and Chin-Tau Lea', u'title': u'Strictly and wide-sense nonblocking photonic switching systems under crosstalk constraint', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Photonic switching systems based on directional coupler switching elements can switch multiple-wavelength signals at the speed of tera-bits per second. Crosstalk is an intrinsic shortcoming of the directional couplers which must be overcome in the construction of an efficient switching system. Therefore, it adds a new dimension to the design of the networks based on directional couplers. We explore the principles of constructing strictly nonblocking directional coupler-based photonic switching systems under various crosstalk constraints. We show that a lower level of crosstalk can be achieved at a cost of additional hardware. We also introduce a rule that limits the routing of the new connections based on the state of the switching network. Such a rule can significantly reduce the undesired crosstalk and the hardware complexity of the strictly nonblocking network at the same time. The resulting network is therefore categorized as a wide-sense nonblocking network.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'118-125 vol.1', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'photonic switching systems;photonic switching systems;wide-sense nonblocking systems;crosstalk constraint;directional coupler switching elements;multiple-wavelength signals;network design;strictly nonblocking directional coupler;routing;switching network state;hardware complexity reduction;strictly nonblocking network;wide-sense nonblocking network;Banyan type network;Switching systems;Directional couplers;Optical crosstalk;Switches;Optical waveguides;Optical coupling;Hardware;Voltage;Electrodes;High speed optical techniques', 'ID': u'659645', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2016.7524529', u'author': u'X. Li and G. Li and F. Yang and J. Teng and D. Xuan and B. Chen', u'title': u'Traffic at-a-glance: Time-bounded analytics on large visual traffic data', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Massive visual traffic data have become available recently, which provides an opportunity for intelligent traffic analysis. Timely processing is particularly necessary for traffic analysis. In this paper, we study time-bounded aggregation analytics on large visual traffic data. We first find that current MapReduce framework can not work well due to two challenges: first, significant dual diversities exist on data distributions and processing time; second, no apriori knowledge on these distributions and time costs is available. However, we also observe spatial and temporal locality on data values and processing time. Based on the examination, we design TaG, an augmented MapReduce framework for time-bounded traffic analytics jobs. Particularly, we propose a novel sampling algorithm that exploits traffic data localities and stratifies samples based on data distributions and processing time. It runs in an iterative, adaptive manner without apriori knowledge. Moreover, we propose a heuristic scheduling algorithm with considerations of batch processing overhead. Further, we refine load balancing mechanism based on data processing time locality to respect job time bounds. We implement TaG on Hadoop and conduct extensive experiments on a large traffic image dataset. The evaluations on different data sizes show TaG is able to achieve high accuracy within different time bounds.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2016', u'keywords': u'data aggregation;data analysis;intelligent transportation systems;resource allocation;sampling methods;scheduling;traffic engineering computing;traffic at-a-glance;visual traffic data;intelligent traffic analysis;time-bounded aggregation analytics;data distributions;spatial locality;temporal locality;TaG;augmented MapReduce framework;time-bounded traffic analytics;sampling algorithm;traffic data localities;heuristic scheduling algorithm;load balancing mechanism;data processing time locality;Hadoop;Visualization;Load management;Vehicles;Big data;Scheduling algorithms;Computer vision', 'ID': u'7524529', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2016 - The 35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
