{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.662927', u'author': u'R. Ramjee and T. La Porta and J. Kurose and D. Towsley', u'title': u'User agent migration policies in multimedia wireless networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Multimedia wireless networks often employ network based user agents as proxies for mobile users. We consider a fundamental question in the design of these networks: should the user agents migrate and if so, what are good user agent migration policies? We first introduce a general framework for analysing user agent migration policies. We then highlight, through analysis and simulation, the numerous parameters and tradeoffs that dictate the design of migration policies. Finally, we identify two simple threshold-based policies that deliver very good performance over a wide range of system parameters and configurations.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1147-1155 vol.3', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'multimedia communication;radio networks;software agents;telecommunication computing;cellular radio;multimedia wireless networks;user agent migration policies;network design;simulation;threshold-based policies;performance;system parameters;system configurations;cellular radio;Wireless networks;Network servers;Load management;Bandwidth;Workstations;Analytical models', 'ID': u'662927', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5935026', u'author': u'X. Lin and R. Lu and X. Liang and X. Shen', u'title': u'STAP: A social-tier-assisted packet forwarding protocol for achieving receiver-location privacy preservation in VANETs', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Receiver-location privacy is an important security requirement in privacy-preserving Vehicular Ad hoc Networks (VANETs), yet the unavailable receiver's location information makes many existing packet forwarding protocols inefficient in VANETs. To tackle this challenging issue, in this paper, we propose an efficient social-tier-assisted packet forwarding protocol, called STAP, for achieving receiver-location privacy preservation in VANETs. Specifically, by observing the phenomena that vehicles often visit some social spots, such as well-traversed shopping malls and busy intersections in a city environment, we deploy storage-rich Roadside Units (RSUs) at social spots and form a virtual social tier with them. Then, without knowing the receiver's exact location information, a packet can be first forwarded and disseminated in the social tier. Later, once the receiver visits one of social spots, it can successfully receive the packet. Detailed security analysis shows that the proposed STAP protocol can protect the receiver's location privacy against an active global adversary, and achieve vehicle's conditional privacy preservation as well. In addition, performance evaluation via extensive simulations demonstrates its efficiency in terms of high delivery ratio and low average delay.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2147-2155', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'data privacy;routing protocols;vehicular ad hoc networks;social-tier-assisted packet forwarding protocol;STAP;receiver-location privacy preservation;vehicular ad hoc networks;privacy-preserving VANET;roadside units;virtual social tier;exact location information;conditional privacy preservation;delivery ratio;Vehicles;Privacy;Protocols;Receivers;Delay;Authentication;Cities and towns;VANETs;Packet forwarding;Social-tier-assisted;Receiver-location privacy preservation', 'ID': u'5935026', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6567043', u'author': u'J. Cao and H. Gao and L. E. Li and B. Friedman', u'title': u'Enterprise social network analysis and modeling: A tale of two graphs', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Like their public counterpart such as Facebook and Twitter, enterprise social networks are poised to revolutionize how people interact in the workplace. There is a pressing need to understand how people are using these social networks. Unlike the public social networks like Facebook or Twitter which are normally characterized using the social graph or the interaction graph, enterprise social networks are also governed by an organization graph. Based on a six month dataset collected from May through October 2011 of a large enterprise social network, we study the characteristics of activities of its enterprise social network. We observe that the user attributes in the organization graph such as geographic location (eg. country) and his/her rank in the company hierarchy have a significant impact on how the user uses the social network and how user interacts with each other. We then build formal statistical models of user interaction graphs in enterprise social network and quantify effects of user attributes from organization graphs on these interactions. Furthermore, as the enterprise social network medium bring users from diverse locations and social status forming ad-hoc communities, our statistical model can be further enhanced by including these ad-hoc communities.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2382-2390', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'graph theory;social networking (online);statistical analysis;enterprise social network analysis;Facebook;Twitter;public social network;social graph;user interaction graph;organization graph;geographic location;formal statistical model;Communities;Companies;Blogs;Logistics;Twitter', 'ID': u'6567043', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6567051', u'author': u'S. Kadloor and N. Kiyavash', u'title': u'Delay optimal policies offer very little privacy', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Traditionally, scheduling policies have been optimized to perform well on metrics such as throughput, delay and fairness. In the context of shared event schedulers, where a common processor is shared among multiple users, one also has to consider the privacy offered by the scheduling policy. The privacy offered by a scheduling policy measures how much information about the usage pattern of one user of the system can be learnt by another as a consequence of sharing the scheduler. In [1], we introduced an estimation error based metric to quantify this privacy. We showed that the most commonly deployed scheduling policy, the first-come-first-served (FCFS) offers very little privacy to its users. We also proposed a parametric non-work-conserving policy which traded off delay for improved privacy. In this work, we ask the question, is a trade-off between delay and privacy fundamental to the design to scheduling policies? In particular, is there a work-conserving, possibly randomized, scheduling policy that scores high on the privacy metric? Answering the first question, we show that there does exist a fundamental limit on the privacy performance of a work-conserving scheduling policy. We quantify this limit. Furthermore, answering the second question, we demonstrate that the round-robin scheduling policy (a deterministic policy) is privacy optimal within the class of work-conserving policies.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2454-2462', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'data privacy;estimation theory;processor scheduling;round-robin scheduling policy;work-conserving scheduling policy;privacy metric;privacy fundamental;nonwork-conserving policy;FCFS;first-come-first-served;estimation error-based metric;shared event schedulers;delay optimal policies;Privacy;Optimal scheduling;Delays;Estimation error;Time division multiple access;Processor scheduling', 'ID': u'6567051', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057029', u'author': u'S. Shukla and A. A. Abouzeid', u'title': u'Proactive retention aware caching', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We consider the problem of proactive (i.e. predictive) content caching that is aware of the costs of retention of the content in the cache. Prior work on caching (whether proactive or reactive) does not explicitly take into account the storage cost due to the duration of time for which a content is cached. This new problem, which we call retention aware caching, is motivated by two recent technological developments that are described in the paper: cloud storage rental costs and flash memory damage. We consider a hierarchical network consisting of a server connected to a number of cache-enabled nodes, located either at the edge of a network (e.g. base stations) or in the core of a data center. There are two types of network costs: storage cost at the caches and download cost from the server. We formulate the problem of proactive retention aware data caching (PRAC), which minimizes the total cost subject to the node capacity constraints. We first prove that PRAC is NP-Hard in general and then analyze PRAC for two cases: (1) linear storage cost, (2) convex storage cost. We show that PRAC admits efficient polynomial time algorithms when the storage cost is linear in retention times and caches have a large capacity. Furthermore, we derive bounds on the performance of PRAC for the case when the storage cost is a practically motivated convex function. Numerical evaluations demonstrate that PRAC outperforms other state-of-the-art caching policies for a wide range of parameters of interest.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'cache storage;cloud computing;computational complexity;convex programming;flash memories;linear programming;PRAC;proactive retention aware caching;content caching;cloud storage rental costs;cache-enabled nodes;network costs;download cost;retention times;caching policies;linear storage cost;convex storage cost;flash memory damage;hierarchical network;NP-hard problem;Servers;Cloud computing;Delays;Conferences;Multicast communication;Hardware', 'ID': u'8057029', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6566735', u'author': u'J. Chandra and B. Mitra and N. Ganguly', u'title': u'Effect of constraints on superpeer topologies', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In superpeer based networks, the superpeers are discovered through the process of bootstrapping, whereby resourceful peers get upgraded to superpeers. However, bootstrapping is influenced by several factors like limitation on the maximum number of connections a peer can have due to bandwidth constraints, limitation on the availability of information of existing peers due to cache size constraints and also by the attachment policy of the newly arriving peers to the resourceful peers. In this paper, we derive closed form equations that model the effect of these factors on superpeer related topological properties of the networks. Based on the model, we observe that the cache parameters and the preferentiality parameters must be suitably tuned so as to increase the fraction of superpeers in the network. Finally, we perform an empirical analysis of social networks like Twitter and Facebook using our model to obtain and derive insights for suitably bootstrapping superpeer topology.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'60-64', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'cache storage;computer bootstrapping;peer-to-peer computing;social networking (online);telecommunication network topology;superpeer based networks;bootstrapping process;bandwidth constraints;information availability;cache size constraints;attachment policy;resourceful peers;superpeer related topological properties;cache parameters;empirical analysis;social networks;Facebook;Twitter;bootstrapping superpeer topology;Peer-to-peer computing;Mathematical model;Facebook;Equations;Twitter;Protocols;Topology;Superpeer networks;Bootstrapping protocols;Webcache;Rate equation', 'ID': u'6566735', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486327', u'author': u'S. Xue and L. Zhang and A. Li and X. Li and C. Ruan and W. Huang', u'title': u'AppDNA: App Behavior Profiling via Graph-based Deep Learning', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Better understanding of mobile applications' behaviors would lead to better malware detection/classification and better app recommendation for users. In this work, we design a framework AppDNA to automatically generate a compact representation for each app to comprehensively profile its behaviors. The behavior difference between two apps can be measured by the distance between their representations. As a result, the versatile representation can be generated once for each app, and then be used for a wide variety of objectives, including malware detection, app categorizing, plagiarism detection, etc. Based on a systematic and deep understanding of an app's behavior, we propose to perform a function-call-graph-based app profiling. We carefully design a graph-encoding method to convert a typically extremely large call-graph to a 64-dimension fix-size vector to achieve robust app profiling. Our extensive evaluations based on 86,332 benign and malicious apps demonstrate that our system performs app profiling (thus malware detection, classification, and app recommendation) to a high accuracy with extremely low computation cost: it classifies 4024 (benign/malware) apps using around 5.06 second with accuracy about 93.07%; it classifies 570 malware's family (total 21 families) using around 0.83 second with accuracy 82.3%; it classifies 9,730 apps' functionality with accuracy 33.3% for a total of 7 categories and accuracy of 88.1 % for 2 categories.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1475-1483', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'graph theory;invasive software;learning (artificial intelligence);mobile computing;pattern classification;app recommendation;function-call-graph-based app profiling;graph-encoding method;malicious apps;app behavior profiling;malware detection;benign apps;mobile applications behaviors;malware classification;AppDNA;graph-based deep learning;Malware;Feature extraction;Encoding;Task analysis;Plagiarism;Neural networks;Machine learning', 'ID': u'8486327', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486327', u'author': u'S. Xue and L. Zhang and A. Li and X. Li and C. Ruan and W. Huang', u'title': u'AppDNA: App Behavior Profiling via Graph-based Deep Learning', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Better understanding of mobile applications' behaviors would lead to better malware detection/classification and better app recommendation for users. In this work, we design a framework AppDNA to automatically generate a compact representation for each app to comprehensively profile its behaviors. The behavior difference between two apps can be measured by the distance between their representations. As a result, the versatile representation can be generated once for each app, and then be used for a wide variety of objectives, including malware detection, app categorizing, plagiarism detection, etc. Based on a systematic and deep understanding of an app's behavior, we propose to perform a function-call-graph-based app profiling. We carefully design a graph-encoding method to convert a typically extremely large call-graph to a 64-dimension fix-size vector to achieve robust app profiling. Our extensive evaluations based on 86,332 benign and malicious apps demonstrate that our system performs app profiling (thus malware detection, classification, and app recommendation) to a high accuracy with extremely low computation cost: it classifies 4024 (benign/malware) apps using around 5.06 second with accuracy about 93.07%; it classifies 570 malware's family (total 21 families) using around 0.83 second with accuracy 82.3%; it classifies 9,730 apps' functionality with accuracy 33.3% for a total of 7 categories and accuracy of 88.1 % for 2 categories.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1475-1483', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'graph theory;invasive software;learning (artificial intelligence);mobile computing;pattern classification;app recommendation;function-call-graph-based app profiling;graph-encoding method;malicious apps;app behavior profiling;malware detection;benign apps;mobile applications behaviors;malware classification;AppDNA;graph-based deep learning;Malware;Feature extraction;Encoding;Task analysis;Plagiarism;Neural networks;Machine learning', 'ID': u'8486327', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.309', u'author': u'Y. Yang and R. Dunlap and M. Rexroad and B. F. Cooper', u'title': u'Performance of Full Text Search in Structured and Unstructured Peer-to-Peer Systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Peer to peer computing;Publishing;Bandwidth;Delay;Routing;Keyword search;Costs;Filters;Educational institutions;Computer networks', 'ID': u'4146962', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5935205', u'author': u'M. Marchese and M. Cello and G. Gnecco and M. Sanguineti', u'title': u'Structural properties of optimal coordinate-convex policies for CAC with nonlinearly-constrained feasibility regions', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Necessary optimality conditions for Call Admission Control (CAC) problems with nonlinearly-constrained feasibility regions and two classes of users are derived. The policies are restricted to the class of coordinate-convex policies. Two kinds of structural properties of the optimal policies and their robustness with respect to changes of the feasibility region are investigated: 1) general properties not depending on the revenue ratio associated with the two classes of users and 2) more specific properties depending on such a ratio. The results allow one to narrow the search for the optimal policies to a suitable subset of the set of coordinate-convex policies.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'466-470', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'convex programming;telecommunication congestion control;structural property;optimal coordinate-convex policy;nonlinearly-constrained feasibility region;call admission control problem;Robustness;Call Admission Control;Feasibility Region;Coordinate Convex Policies', 'ID': u'5935205', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
