{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2015.7218599', u'author': u'C. Kong and Z. Yuan and X. Han and F. Yang and X. Wang and T. Wang and S. Lu', u'title': u'VSMC MIMO: A spectral efficient scheme for cooperative relay in cognitive radio networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) technology has become an efficient way to improve the capacity and reliability of wireless networks. Traditional MIMO schemes are designed mainly for the scenario of contiguous spectrum ranges. However, in cognitive radio networks, the available spectrum is discontiguous, making traditional MIMO schemes inefficient for spectrum usage. This motivates the design of new MIMO schemes that apply to networks with discontiguous spectrum ranges. In this paper, we propose a scheme called VSMC MIMO, which enables MIMO nodes to transmit variable numbers of streams in multiple discontinuous spectrum ranges. This scheme can largely improve the spectrum utilization and meanwhile maintain the same spatial multiplexing and diversity gains as traditional MIMO schemes. To implement this spectral-efficient scheme on cooperative MIMO relays in cognitive radio networks, we propose a joint relay selection and spectrum allocation algorithm and a corresponding MAC protocol for the system. We also build a testbed by the Universal Software Radio Peripherals (USRPs) to evaluate the performances of the proposed scheme in practical networks. The experimental results show that VSMC MIMO can efficiently utilize the discontiguous spectrum and greatly improve the throughput of cognitive radio networks.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2137-2145', u'year': u'2015', u'keywords': u'access protocols;cognitive radio;cooperative communication;diversity reception;MIMO communication;multiplexing;radio spectrum management;relay networks (telecommunication);software radio;telecommunication network reliability;VSMC MIMO scheme;spectral efficient scheme;cooperative relay;cognitive radio network;multiple input multiple output technology;wireless network reliability;contiguous spectrum range;multiple discontiguous spectrum range;spectrum utilization;spatial multiplexing;diversity gain;joint relay selection and spectrum allocation algorithm;MAC protocol;universal software radio peripheral;USRP;MIMO;Relays;Cognitive radio;Throughput;Resource management;Receivers;Antennas', 'ID': u'7218599', u'booktitle': u'2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5935070', u'author': u'Y. Zhang and Q. Li and G. Yu and B. Wang', u'title': u'ETCH: Efficient Channel Hopping for communication rendezvous in dynamic spectrum access networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In a dynamic spectrum access (DSA) network, communication rendezvous is the first step for two secondary users to be able to communicate with each other. In this step, the pair of secondary users meet on the same channel, over which they negotiate on the communication parameters, to establish the communication link. This paper presents ETCH, Efficient Channel Hopping based MAC-layer protocols for communication rendezvous in DSA networks. We propose two protocols, SYNC-ETCH and ASYNC-ETCH. Both protocols achieve better time-to-rendezvous and throughput compared to previous work.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2471-2479', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'protocols;radio access networks;radio spectrum management;efficient channel hopping;dynamic spectrum access networks;communication rendezvous;communication link;MAC-layer protocols;DSA networks;ASYNC-ETCH protocols;SYNC-ETCH protocols;Jamming;Wireless communication;Protocols;Manganese;Wireless sensor networks', 'ID': u'5935070', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2014.6848008', u'author': u'X. Xie and X. Zhang', u'title': u'Scalable user selection for MU-MIMO networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In a multi-user MIMO (MU-MIMO) network, an AP with M antennas can only serve up to M users out of a large user population. The M users' rates are inter-coupled and depend on their channel orthogonality. Substantial theoretical studies focused on selecting users to maximize capacity, but they require feedback of channel state information (CSI) from all users. The resulting overhead can easily overwhelm useful data in large scale networks. In this paper, we propose a scalable user selection mechanism called orthogonality probing based user selection (OPUS). OPUS only requires up to M rounds of CSI feedback. In each round, it employs a novel probing mechanism that enables a user to evaluate its orthogonality with existing users, and a distributed contention mechanism that singles out the best user to feedback its CSI. Software-radio based implementation and experimentation shows that OPUS significantly outperforms traditional user selection schemes in both throughput and fairness.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'808-816', u'year': u'2014', u'keywords': u'antennas;feedback;MIMO communication;software radio;wireless channels;MU-MIMO networks;AP;antennas;channel orthogonality;channel state information;CSI feedback;large scale networks;scalable user selection mechanism;orthogonality probing based user selection;OPUS;distributed contention mechanism;software-radio based implementation;access point;multiuser MIMO network;Measurement;Downlink;Vectors;Interference;Signal to noise ratio;Antennas;MIMO', 'ID': u'6848008', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2014 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6566751', u'author': u'T. Lin and H. T. Kung', u'title': u'Concurrent channel access and estimation for scalable multiuser MIMO networking', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'This paper presents MIMO/CON, a PHY/MAC cross-layer design for multiuser MIMO wireless networks that delivers throughput scalable to many users. MIMO/CON supports concurrent channel access from uncoordinated and loosely synchronized users. This new capability allows a multi-antenna MIMO access point (AP) to fully realize its MIMO capacity gain. MIMO/CON draws insight from compressive sensing to carry out concurrent channel estimation. In the MAC layer, MIMO/CON boosts channel utilization by exploiting normal MAC layer retransmissions to recover otherwise undecodable packets in a collision. MIMO/CON has been implemented and validated on a 4\xd74 MIMO testbed with software-defined radios. In software simulations, MIMO/CON achieves a 210% improvement in MAC throughput over existing staggered access protocols in a 5-antenna AP scenario.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'140-144', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'access protocols;antenna arrays;channel estimation;MIMO communication;multiuser channels;radio networks;software radio;concurrent channel access;concurrent channel estimation;scalable multiuser MIMO networking;PHY-MAC cross-layer design;multiantenna MIMO access point;synchronized users;MIMO capacity gain;compressive sensing;MIMO-CON boosts channel utilization;MAC layer retransmission;software-defined radio;5-antenna AP scenario;multiuser MIMO wireless networks;MIMO;Channel estimation;Decoding;Antennas;Delays;Vectors;Throughput', 'ID': u'6566751', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057127', u'author': u'C. Lin and Y. Chen and K. C. Lin and W. Chen', u'title': u'acPad: Enhancing channel utilization for 802.11ac using packet padding', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Multi-User Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) enables a multi-antenna access point (AP) to serve multiple users simultaneously, and has been adopted as the IEEE 802.11ac standard. While several PHY-MAC designs have recently been proposed to improve the throughput performance of a MU-MIMO WLAN, they, however, usually assume that all the concurrent streams are of roughly equal length. In reality, users usually have frames with heterogeneous lengths even after aggregation, leading to different lengths of transmission time. Hence, the concurrent transmission opportunities might not always be fully utilized when some streams finish earlier than the others in a transmission opportunity (TXOP). To resolve this inefficiency, this paper presents acPad, a PHY-MAC design that adds additional frames to fill up the idle channel time and better utilize the spatial multiplexing gain. Our acPad identifies proper users as the padding so as to improve the padding gain, while preventing this padding from harming all the ongoing streams. Our evaluation via large-scale trace-driven simulations demonstrates that acPad improves the throughput by up to 2.83\xd7, or by 1.36\xd7 on average, as compared to the conventional 802.11ac.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'access protocols;antenna arrays;MIMO communication;multiplexing;wireless channels;wireless LAN;PHY-MAC design;acPad;channel utilization;packet padding;MultiUser Multiple Input Multiple Output;IEEE 802.11ac standard;MU-MIMO WLAN;multiantenna access point;spatial multiplexing gain;Signal to noise ratio;Interference;Precoding;Throughput;MIMO;Standards;Array signal processing', 'ID': u'8057127', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057127', u'author': u'C. Lin and Y. Chen and K. C. Lin and W. Chen', u'title': u'acPad: Enhancing channel utilization for 802.11ac using packet padding', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Multi-User Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) enables a multi-antenna access point (AP) to serve multiple users simultaneously, and has been adopted as the IEEE 802.11ac standard. While several PHY-MAC designs have recently been proposed to improve the throughput performance of a MU-MIMO WLAN, they, however, usually assume that all the concurrent streams are of roughly equal length. In reality, users usually have frames with heterogeneous lengths even after aggregation, leading to different lengths of transmission time. Hence, the concurrent transmission opportunities might not always be fully utilized when some streams finish earlier than the others in a transmission opportunity (TXOP). To resolve this inefficiency, this paper presents acPad, a PHY-MAC design that adds additional frames to fill up the idle channel time and better utilize the spatial multiplexing gain. Our acPad identifies proper users as the padding so as to improve the padding gain, while preventing this padding from harming all the ongoing streams. Our evaluation via large-scale trace-driven simulations demonstrates that acPad improves the throughput by up to 2.83\xd7, or by 1.36\xd7 on average, as compared to the conventional 802.11ac.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'access protocols;antenna arrays;MIMO communication;multiplexing;wireless channels;wireless LAN;PHY-MAC design;acPad;channel utilization;packet padding;MultiUser Multiple Input Multiple Output;IEEE 802.11ac standard;MU-MIMO WLAN;multiantenna access point;spatial multiplexing gain;Signal to noise ratio;Interference;Precoding;Throughput;MIMO;Standards;Array signal processing', 'ID': u'8057127', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6566942', u'author': u'Y. Zhao and M. Song and C. Xin', u'title': u'FMAC: A fair MAC protocol for coexisting cognitive radio networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Cognitive radio is viewed as a disruptive technology innovation to improve spectrum efficiency. The deployment of coexisting cognitive radio networks, however, raises a great challenge to the medium access control (MAC) protocol design. While there have been many MAC protocols developed for cognitive radio networks, most of them have not considered the coexistence of cognitive radio networks, and thus do not provide a mechanism to ensure fair and efficient coexistence of cognitive radio networks. In this paper, we introduce a novel MAC protocol, termed fairness-oriented media access control (FMAC), to address the dynamic availability of channels and achieve fair and efficient coexistence of cognitive radio networks. Different from the existing MACs, FMAC utilizes a three-state spectrum sensing model to distinguish whether a busy channel is being used by a primary user or a secondary user from an adjacent cognitive radio network. As a result, secondary users from coexisting cognitive radio networks are able to share the channel together, and hence to achieve fair and efficient coexistence. We develop an analytical model using two-level Markov chain to analyze the performance of FMAC including throughput and fairness. Numerical results verify that FMAC is able to significantly improve the fairness of coexisting cognitive radio networks while maintaining a high throughput.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1474-1482', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'access protocols;cognitive radio;innovation management;Markov processes;radio spectrum management;wireless channels;two-level Markov chain;primary user;secondary user;three-state spectrum sensing model;dynamic availability;fairness-oriented media access control;medium access control protocol design;spectrum efficiency;disruptive technology innovation;coexisting cognitive radio networks;fair MAC protocol;FMAC;Sensors;Media Access Protocol;Cognitive radio;Switches;Throughput;Markov processes;IEEE 802.11 Standards', 'ID': u'6566942', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057052', u'author': u'W. Cheng and X. Zhang and H. Zhang', u'title': u'Pilot-based full-duplex spectrum-sensing and multichannel-MAC over non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In the non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks (CRNs), the synchronization between PUs and secondary users (SUs) cannot be guaranteed, resulting in two challenging problems: the reactivation-failure of PUs and the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. The reactivation-failure of PUs is the incident that the SUs cannot detect the PUs' reactivation when the SUs are occupying the channels to transmit their data in non-time-slotted CRNs. The frequently unexpected handoffs among SUs are the events that the SU cannot distinguish between the PUs' reactivation and the other SUs' contention, thus causing many unexpected hand-offs among SUs, which severely degrade the achieved throughput of SUs in non-time-slotted CRNs. Employing the energy-detection based wireless full-duplex spectrum sensing schemes, the PUs' reactivation-failure problem can be efficiently solved, thus guaranteeing the required throughput of PUs. However, the key of CRNs is not only the throughput-guarantees for PUs, but also the throughput-boosts for SUs. To optimize the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs, in this paper we develop the pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing (PF-SS) scheme and the pilot-based medium access control (P-MAC) protocol to not only guarantee the required throughput of PUs, but also significantly increase the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs. Using the PF-SS scheme, the SUs can identify whether the PUs' signal or the SUs' signal, thus significantly reducing the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. Then, based on the PF-SS scheme, the P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs. We conduct extensive numerical analyses to show that our developed PF-SS scheme and P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs while guaranteeing the required throughput for PUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'access protocols;cognitive radio;mobility management (mobile radio);radio networks;radio spectrum management;signal detection;wireless channels;pilot-based medium access control protocol;P-MAC protocol;nontime-slotted cognitive radio networks;primary user;secondary users;multichannel-MAC;PUs reactivation;frequently unexpected handoffs;reactivation-failure;full-duplex spectrum-sensing;frequently unexpected hand-offs;SUs;CRNs;Throughput;Sensors;Wireless sensor networks;Protocols;Cognitive radio;Wireless networks;Non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks;hand-offs among secondary users;pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing;pilot-based medium access control protocol', 'ID': u'8057052', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057052', u'author': u'W. Cheng and X. Zhang and H. Zhang', u'title': u'Pilot-based full-duplex spectrum-sensing and multichannel-MAC over non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In the non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks (CRNs), the synchronization between PUs and secondary users (SUs) cannot be guaranteed, resulting in two challenging problems: the reactivation-failure of PUs and the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. The reactivation-failure of PUs is the incident that the SUs cannot detect the PUs' reactivation when the SUs are occupying the channels to transmit their data in non-time-slotted CRNs. The frequently unexpected handoffs among SUs are the events that the SU cannot distinguish between the PUs' reactivation and the other SUs' contention, thus causing many unexpected hand-offs among SUs, which severely degrade the achieved throughput of SUs in non-time-slotted CRNs. Employing the energy-detection based wireless full-duplex spectrum sensing schemes, the PUs' reactivation-failure problem can be efficiently solved, thus guaranteeing the required throughput of PUs. However, the key of CRNs is not only the throughput-guarantees for PUs, but also the throughput-boosts for SUs. To optimize the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs, in this paper we develop the pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing (PF-SS) scheme and the pilot-based medium access control (P-MAC) protocol to not only guarantee the required throughput of PUs, but also significantly increase the throughput of SUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs. Using the PF-SS scheme, the SUs can identify whether the PUs' signal or the SUs' signal, thus significantly reducing the frequently unexpected hand-offs among SUs. Then, based on the PF-SS scheme, the P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs. We conduct extensive numerical analyses to show that our developed PF-SS scheme and P-MAC protocol can significantly increase the throughput of SUs while guaranteeing the required throughput for PUs in multichannel non-time-slotted CRNs.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'access protocols;cognitive radio;mobility management (mobile radio);radio networks;radio spectrum management;signal detection;wireless channels;pilot-based medium access control protocol;P-MAC protocol;nontime-slotted cognitive radio networks;primary user;secondary users;multichannel-MAC;PUs reactivation;frequently unexpected handoffs;reactivation-failure;full-duplex spectrum-sensing;frequently unexpected hand-offs;SUs;CRNs;Throughput;Sensors;Wireless sensor networks;Protocols;Cognitive radio;Wireless networks;Non-time-slotted cognitive radio networks;hand-offs among secondary users;pilot-based full-duplex spectrum sensing;pilot-based medium access control protocol', 'ID': u'8057052', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2016.7524483', u'author': u'T. Wei and X. Zhang', u'title': u'Random access signaling for network MIMO uplink', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Increasing popularity of mobile devices and upload-intensive applications is rapidly driving the uplink traffic demand in wireless LANs. Network MIMO (netMIMO) can potentially meet the demand by enabling concurrent uplink transmissions to an AP cluster (APC) comprised of multiple access points. NetMIMO's PHY-layer communication algorithms have been well explored, but the MAC-level signaling procedure remains an open issue: prior to uplink transmission, a group of clients must gain channel access, and ensure synchronization and channel orthogonality with each other. But such signaling is fundamentally challenging, because netMIMO clients tend to be widely distributed and may not even sense each other. In this paper, we introduce the first signaling protocol, called NURA, to meet the challenge. NURA clients employ a novel medium-access-signaling mechanism to realize group-based random access and synchronization, without disturbing ongoing uplink transmissions. The APC leverages a lightweight user-admission mechanism to group users with orthogonal channels (and hence high uplink capacity), without requiring costly channel-state feedback from all users. We have implemented NURA on a software-radio based netMIMO platform. Our experiments show that NURA is feasible, efficient, and can readily serve as the a priori signaling mechanism for distributed asynchronous netMIMO clients.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2016', u'keywords': u"access protocols;MIMO communication;radio links;wireless channels;wireless LAN;random access signaling;network MIMO uplink;mobile devices;wireless LAN;network MIMO;netMIMO;AP cluster;NetMIMO's PHY-layer communication algorithms;MAC;uplink transmission;channel access;channel orthogonality;signaling protocol;medium access signaling mechanism;uplink transmissions;orthogonal channels;channel-state feedback;Uplink;OFDM;MIMO;Synchronization;Protocols;Signal to noise ratio;Wireless LAN", 'ID': u'7524483', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2016 - The 35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
