{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2010.5462191', u'author': u'O. Rottenstreich and I. Keslassy', u'title': u'Worst-Case TCAM Rule Expansion', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Designers of TCAMs (Ternary CAMs) for packet classification deal with unpredictable sets of rules, resulting in highly variable rule expansions, and rely on heuristic encoding algorithms with no reasonable expansion guarantees. In this paper, given several types of rules, we provide new upper bounds on the TCAM worst-case rule expansions. In particular, we prove that a W-bit range can be encoded using W TCAM entries, improving upon the previously-known bound of 2W-5. We also propose a modified TCAM architecture that uses additional logic to significantly reduce the rule expansions, both in the worst case and in experiments with real-life classification databases.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-5', u'year': u'2010', u'keywords': u'content-addressable storage;pattern classification;worst case TCAM rule expansion;Ternary CAM;packet classification;heuristic encoding algorithms;rule expansions;real life classification databases;Energy consumption;Upper bound;Databases;Communications Society;Cams;Encoding;Heuristic algorithms;Logic;Routing;Filtering', 'ID': u'5462191', u'booktitle': u'2010 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8485947', u'author': u'W. Li and X. Li and H. Li and G. Xie', u'title': u'CutSplit: A Decision-Tree Combining Cutting and Splitting for Scalable Packet Classification', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Efficient algorithmic solutions for multi-field packet classification have been a challenging problem for many years. This problem is becoming even worse in the era of Software Defined Network (SDN), where flow tables with increasing complexities are playing a central role in the forwarding plane of SDN. In this paper, we first conduct an unprecedented in-depth reasoning on issues that led to the unsuccess of the major quests for scalable algorithmic solutions. With the insights obtained, we propose a practical framework called CutSplit, which can exploit the benefits of cutting and splitting techniques adaptively. By addressing the central problem caused by uncontrollable rule replications suffered by the major efforts, CutSplit not only pushes the performance of algorithmic packet classification more closely to hardware-based solutions, but also reduces the memory consumption to a practical level. Moreover, our work achieves low pre-processing time for rule updates, a problem that has long been ignored by previous decision-trees, but is becoming more relevant in the context of SDN due to frequent updates of rules. Experimental results show that using ClassBench, CutSplit achieves a memory reduction over 10 times, as well as 3x improvement on performance in terms of the number of memory access on average.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2645-2653', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'computational complexity;decision trees;inference mechanisms;Internet;pattern classification;software defined networking;CutSplit;scalable packet classification;efficient algorithmic solutions;multifield packet classification;Software Defined Network;SDN;flow tables;increasing complexities;central role;forwarding plane;in-depth reasoning;scalable algorithmic solutions;practical framework;splitting techniques;central problem;uncontrollable rule replications;algorithmic packet classification;hardware-based solutions;low pre-processing time;rule updates;decision-tree;ClassBench;memory reduction;Classification algorithms;Memory management;Decision trees;Optimization;IP networks;Conferences;Software defined networking;Packet Classification;OpenFlow;Decision Tree;Algorithm;Firewall', 'ID': u'8485947', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8485947', u'author': u'W. Li and X. Li and H. Li and G. Xie', u'title': u'CutSplit: A Decision-Tree Combining Cutting and Splitting for Scalable Packet Classification', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Efficient algorithmic solutions for multi-field packet classification have been a challenging problem for many years. This problem is becoming even worse in the era of Software Defined Network (SDN), where flow tables with increasing complexities are playing a central role in the forwarding plane of SDN. In this paper, we first conduct an unprecedented in-depth reasoning on issues that led to the unsuccess of the major quests for scalable algorithmic solutions. With the insights obtained, we propose a practical framework called CutSplit, which can exploit the benefits of cutting and splitting techniques adaptively. By addressing the central problem caused by uncontrollable rule replications suffered by the major efforts, CutSplit not only pushes the performance of algorithmic packet classification more closely to hardware-based solutions, but also reduces the memory consumption to a practical level. Moreover, our work achieves low pre-processing time for rule updates, a problem that has long been ignored by previous decision-trees, but is becoming more relevant in the context of SDN due to frequent updates of rules. Experimental results show that using ClassBench, CutSplit achieves a memory reduction over 10 times, as well as 3x improvement on performance in terms of the number of memory access on average.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2645-2653', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'computational complexity;decision trees;inference mechanisms;Internet;pattern classification;software defined networking;CutSplit;scalable packet classification;efficient algorithmic solutions;multifield packet classification;Software Defined Network;SDN;flow tables;increasing complexities;central role;forwarding plane;in-depth reasoning;scalable algorithmic solutions;practical framework;splitting techniques;central problem;uncontrollable rule replications;algorithmic packet classification;hardware-based solutions;low pre-processing time;rule updates;decision-tree;ClassBench;memory reduction;Classification algorithms;Memory management;Decision trees;Optimization;IP networks;Conferences;Software defined networking;Packet Classification;OpenFlow;Decision Tree;Algorithm;Firewall', 'ID': u'8485947', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486215', u'author': u'J. Daly and E. Torng', u'title': u'ByteCuts: Fast Packet Classification by Interior Bit Extraction', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Many networking devices, such as firewalls and routing tables, rely upon packet classifiers to define their behavior for various kinds of network traffic. Since these devices have real-time constraints, it is important for packet classification to be as fast as possible. We present a new method, ByteCuts, which includes two major improvements over existing tree-based packet classifiers. First, it introduces a new cutting method that is more efficient than existing methods. Second, ByteCuts intelligently partitions the rule list into multiple trees in a way that supports the cutting method and reduces rule replication. We compare ByteCuts to several existing methods such as HyperCuts, HyperSplit, and SmartSplit. We find that ByteCuts outperforms SmartSplit, the previous fastest classifier, in every metric; specifically, ByteCuts is able to classify packets 58% faster, can be constructed in seconds rather than minutes, and uses orders of magnitude less memory.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2654-2662', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'firewalls;pattern classification;telecommunication network routing;telecommunication traffic;trees (mathematics);ByteCuts;fast packet classification;interior bit extraction;networking devices;routing tables;network traffic;tree-based packet classifiers;cutting method;firewalls;rule list;rule replication reduction;Vegetation;Decision trees;Memory management;Conferences;Real-time systems;Measurement;Indexes', 'ID': u'8486215', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486215', u'author': u'J. Daly and E. Torng', u'title': u'ByteCuts: Fast Packet Classification by Interior Bit Extraction', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Many networking devices, such as firewalls and routing tables, rely upon packet classifiers to define their behavior for various kinds of network traffic. Since these devices have real-time constraints, it is important for packet classification to be as fast as possible. We present a new method, ByteCuts, which includes two major improvements over existing tree-based packet classifiers. First, it introduces a new cutting method that is more efficient than existing methods. Second, ByteCuts intelligently partitions the rule list into multiple trees in a way that supports the cutting method and reduces rule replication. We compare ByteCuts to several existing methods such as HyperCuts, HyperSplit, and SmartSplit. We find that ByteCuts outperforms SmartSplit, the previous fastest classifier, in every metric; specifically, ByteCuts is able to classify packets 58% faster, can be constructed in seconds rather than minutes, and uses orders of magnitude less memory.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2654-2662', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'firewalls;pattern classification;telecommunication network routing;telecommunication traffic;trees (mathematics);ByteCuts;fast packet classification;interior bit extraction;networking devices;routing tables;network traffic;tree-based packet classifiers;cutting method;firewalls;rule list;rule replication reduction;Vegetation;Decision trees;Memory management;Conferences;Real-time systems;Measurement;Indexes', 'ID': u'8486215', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5935001', u'author': u'Y. Chang and C. Lee and C. Su', u'title': u'Multi-field range encoding for packet classification in TCAM', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Packet classification has wide applications such as unauthorized access prevention in firewalls and Quality of Service supported in Internet routers. The classifier containing pre-defined rules is processed by the router for finding the best matching rule for each incoming packet and for taking appropriate actions. Although many software-based solutions had been proposed, high search speed required for Internet backbone routers is not easy to achieve. To accelerate the packet classification, the state-of-the-art ternary content-addressable memory (TCAM) is a promising solution. In this paper, we propose an efficient multi-field range encoding scheme to solve the problem of storing ranges in TCAM and to decrease TCAM usage. Existing range encoding schemes are usually single-field schemes that perform range encoding processes in the range fields independently. Our performance experiments on real-life classifiers show that the proposed multi-field range encoding scheme uses less TCAM memory than the existing single field schemes. Compared with existing notable single-field encoding schemes, the proposed scheme uses 12% ~ 33% of TCAM memory needed in DRIPE or SRGE and 56% ~ 86% of TCAM memory needed in PPC for the classifiers of up to 10k rules.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'196-200', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'computer network security;content-addressable storage;encoding;Internet;telecommunication network routing;multifield range encoding;packet classification;TCAM;unauthorized access prevention;firewalls;quality of service;Internet backbone router;ternary content addressable memory;Erbium;Random access memory;TCAM;Packet classification;multi-field range encoding', 'ID': u'5935001', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2007.162', u'author': u'I. Papaefstathiou and V. Papaefstathiou', u'title': u'Memory-Efficient 5D Packet Classification At 40 Gbps', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Packet classification is one of the most important enabling technologies for next generation network services. Even though many multi-dimensional classification algorithms have been proposed, most of them are precluded from commercial equipments due to their high memory requirements. In this paper, we present an efficient packet classification scheme, called Bloom Based Packet Classification (B2PC). B2PC comprises of an innovative 5-field search algorithm that decomposes multifield classification rules into internal single field rules which are combined using multi-level Bloom filters. The design of B2PC is optimized for the common case based on analysis of real world classification databases. The hardware implementation of this scheme handles 4K rules by involving only 530KB of memory for its data structures, while it supports network streams at a rate of 15Gbps even in the worst case, and more than 40Gbps in the average case. This system covers 1.3 mm in a 0.18mum CMOS technology. We show that given a certain memory budget and silicon cost, the B2PC is the most efficient hardware-based approach to the classification problem.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1370-1378', u'year': u'2007', u'keywords': u'CMOS integrated circuits;computer networks;pattern classification;search problems;telecommunication services;5D packet classification;next generation network services;multidimensional classification algorithms;Bloom based packet classification;5-field search algorithm;multilevel Bloom filters;classification databases;CMOS technology;CMOS technology;Next generation networking;Classification algorithms;Filters;Design optimization;Databases;Hardware;Data structures;Silicon;Costs', 'ID': u'4215744', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2007 - 26th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6567006', u'author': u'O. Rottenstreich and I. Keslassy and A. Hassidim and H. Kaplan and E. Porat', u'title': u'On finding an optimal TCAM encoding scheme for packet classification', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Hardware-based packet classification has become an essential component in many networking devices. It often relies on TCAMs (ternary content-addressable memories), which need to compare the packet header against a set of rules. But efficiently encoding these rules is not an easy task. In particular, the most complicated rules are range rules, which usually require multiple TCAM entries to encode them. However, little is known on the optimal encoding of such non-trivial rules. In this work, we take steps towards finding an optimal encoding scheme for every possible range rule. We first present an optimal encoding for all possible generalized extremal rules. Such rules represent 89% of all non-trivial rules in a typical real-life classification database. We also suggest a new method of simply calculating the optimal expansion of an extremal range, and present a closed-form formula of the average optimal expansion over all extremal ranges. Next, we present new bounds on the worst-case expansion of general classification rules, both in one-dimensional and two-dimensional ranges. Last, we introduce a new TCAM architecture that can leverage these results by providing a guaranteed expansion on the tough rules, while dealing with simpler rules using a regular TCAM. We conclude by verifying our theoretical results in experiments with synthetic and real-life classification databases.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2049-2057', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'computer networks;content-addressable storage;encoding;telecommunication equipment;optimal TCAM encoding scheme;hardware based packet classification;ternary content addressable memory;packet header;optimal encoding;nontrivial rule;generalized extremal rule;real life classification database;closed form formula;average optimal expansion;worst case expansion;general classification rule;Encoding;Indexes;Ports (Computers);Educational institutions;Heuristic algorithms;Reflective binary codes', 'ID': u'6567006', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2007.295', u'author': u'C. Maindorfer and K. A. Mohamed and T. Ottmann and A. Datta', u'title': u'A New Output-Sensitive Algorithm to Detect and Resolve Conflicts in Internet Router Tables', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Packet Alters are rules for classifying packets based on their header fields. In order to avoid ambiguities in packet classification, the set of filters in a router table must be conflict-free, i.e. for any incoming packet p, there must be a unique best matching filter which applies to p. We present the first output-sensitive solution for the offline version of the conflict detection and resolving problem for 1-dimensional arbitrary range filters under the most-specific tie breaking rule. The algorithm achieves a worst case time complexity of O(n log n) and uses space O(n). Instead of reporting and resolving all pairs of conflicting filters, we straight away report those resolve filters that are necessary to make the set conflict-free.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2431-2435', u'year': u'2007', u'keywords': u'computational complexity;filtering theory;Internet;telecommunication network routing;Internet router tables;output-sensitive algorithm;conflict resolution-detection;packet alters rule;packet classification;1D arbitrary range filter;worst case time complexity;Internet;Matched filters;Information filtering;Information filters;Routing;Communications Society;Software algorithms;Computer science;Software engineering;Databases', 'ID': u'4215877', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2007 - 26th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2008.31', u'author': u'A. X. Liu and C. R. Meiners and Y. Zhou', u'title': u'All-Match Based Complete Redundancy Removal for Packet Classifiers in TCAMs', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Packet classification is the core mechanism that enables many networking services on the Internet such as firewall packet filtering and traffic accounting. Using Ternary Content Addressable Memories (TCAMs) to perform high-speed packet classification has become the de facto standard in industry. TCAMs classify packets in constant time by comparing a packet with all classification rules of ternary encoding in parallel. Despite their high speed, TCAMs suffer from the well-known interval expansion problem. As packet classification rules usually have fields specified as intervals, converting such rules to TCAM- compatible rules may result in an explosive increase in the number of rules. This is not a problem if TCAMs have large capacities. Unfortunately, TCAMs have very limited capacity, and more rules means more power consumption and more heat generation for TCAMs. Even worse, the number of rules in packet classifiers have been increasing rapidly with the growing number of services deployed on the internet. The interval expansion problem of TCAMs can be addressed by removing redundant rules in packet classifiers. This equivalent transformation can significantly reduce the number of TCAM entries needed by a packet classifier. Our experiments on real- life packet classifiers show an average reduction of 58.2% in the number of TCAM entries by removing redundant rules. In this paper, we propose an all-match based complete redundancy removal algorithm. This is the first algorithm that attempts to solve first-match problems from an all-match perspective. We formally prove that our redundancy removal algorithm guarantees no redundant rules in resulting packet classifiers. We conducted extensive experiments on both real-life and synthetic packet classifiers. These experimental results show that our redundancy removal algorithm is both effective in terms of reducing TCAM entries and efficient in terms of running time.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'111-115', u'year': u'2008', u'keywords': u'content-addressable storage;Internet;redundancy;ternary codes;trees (mathematics);packet classification;Internet;firewall packet filtering;traffic accounting;ternary content addressable memory;ternary encoding;all-match tree based complete redundancy removal algorithm;Web and internet services;IP networks;Information filtering;Information filters;Telecommunication traffic;Associative memory;Encoding;Explosives;Energy consumption;Power generation', 'ID': u'4509626', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2008 - The 27th Conference on Computer Communications'}
