{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486345', u'author': u'L. Maccari and L. Ghiro and A. Guerrieri and A. Montresor and R. L. Cigno', u'title': u'On the Distributed Computation of Load Centrality and its Application to DV Routing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Centrality metrics are a key instrument for graph analysis and play a central role in many problems related to networking such as service placement, robustness analysis and network optimization. Betweenness centrality is one of the most popular and well-studied metric. While distributed algorithms to compute this metric exist, they are either approximated or limited to certain topologies (directed acyclic graphs or trees). Exact distributed algorithms for betweenness centrality are computationally complex, because its calculation requires the knowledge of all possible shortest paths within the graph. In this paper we consider load centrality, a metric that usually converges to betweenness, and we present the first distributed and exact algorithm to compute it. We prove its convergence, we estimate its complexity and we show it is directly applicable-with minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol based on Bellman-Ford. We finally implement it on top of the Babel routing protocol and we show that, exploiting centrality, we can significantly reduce Babel's convergence time upon node failure without increasing signalling overhead. Our contribution is relevant in the realm of wireless distributed networks, but the algorithm can be adopted in any distributed system where it is not possible, or computationally impractical, to reconstruct the whole network graph at each node and compute betweenness centrality with the classical approach based on Dijkstra's algorithm.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2582-2590', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u"computational complexity;directed graphs;distributed algorithms;routing protocols;minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol;Babel routing protocol;wireless distributed networks;distributed system;network graph;Dijkstra's algorithm;load centrality;DV routing;centrality metrics;key instrument;graph analysis;central role;networking;service placement;robustness analysis;network optimization;betweenness centrality;directed acyclic graphs;trees;exact distributed algorithms;convergence time;Measurement;Routing protocols;Topology;Routing;Network topology;Convergence;Indexes;Multi-hop networks;Mesh networks;Ad-hoc networks;Bellman-Ford;Load centrality;Distributed Algorithms;Failure recovery", 'ID': u'8486345', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486345', u'author': u'L. Maccari and L. Ghiro and A. Guerrieri and A. Montresor and R. L. Cigno', u'title': u'On the Distributed Computation of Load Centrality and its Application to DV Routing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Centrality metrics are a key instrument for graph analysis and play a central role in many problems related to networking such as service placement, robustness analysis and network optimization. Betweenness centrality is one of the most popular and well-studied metric. While distributed algorithms to compute this metric exist, they are either approximated or limited to certain topologies (directed acyclic graphs or trees). Exact distributed algorithms for betweenness centrality are computationally complex, because its calculation requires the knowledge of all possible shortest paths within the graph. In this paper we consider load centrality, a metric that usually converges to betweenness, and we present the first distributed and exact algorithm to compute it. We prove its convergence, we estimate its complexity and we show it is directly applicable-with minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol based on Bellman-Ford. We finally implement it on top of the Babel routing protocol and we show that, exploiting centrality, we can significantly reduce Babel's convergence time upon node failure without increasing signalling overhead. Our contribution is relevant in the realm of wireless distributed networks, but the algorithm can be adopted in any distributed system where it is not possible, or computationally impractical, to reconstruct the whole network graph at each node and compute betweenness centrality with the classical approach based on Dijkstra's algorithm.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2582-2590', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u"computational complexity;directed graphs;distributed algorithms;routing protocols;minimal modifications-to any distance-vector routing protocol;Babel routing protocol;wireless distributed networks;distributed system;network graph;Dijkstra's algorithm;load centrality;DV routing;centrality metrics;key instrument;graph analysis;central role;networking;service placement;robustness analysis;network optimization;betweenness centrality;directed acyclic graphs;trees;exact distributed algorithms;convergence time;Measurement;Routing protocols;Topology;Routing;Network topology;Convergence;Indexes;Multi-hop networks;Mesh networks;Ad-hoc networks;Bellman-Ford;Load centrality;Distributed Algorithms;Failure recovery", 'ID': u'8486345', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.200', u'author': u'M. Mosko and J. J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves', u'title': u'Ad Hoc Routing with Distributed Ordered Sequences', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Routing protocols;Mobile ad hoc networks;Tin;Delay;Computer networks;Internet;Vehicle dynamics;Topology;Telecommunication traffic;Broadcasting', 'ID': u'4146853', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2001.916672', u'author': u'Shengming Jiang and Dajiang He and Jianqiang Rao', u'title': u'A prediction-based link availability estimation for mobile ad hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'One critical issue for routing in mobile ad hoc networks (MANET) is how to select a reliable path that can last longer since mobility may cause radio links to break frequently. To answer this question, a criterion that can judge path reliability is needed. The reliability of a path depends on the availability of the links constituting the path. However, how to measure link availability to answer the above question has not been addressed adequately in the literature. In this paper, a prediction-based link availability estimation is introduced and verified through computer simulations. This estimation algorithm can be used to develop a metric for path selection in terms of path reliability, which can improve the network performance as shown by simulation results.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1745-1752 vol.3', u'year': u'2001', u'keywords': u'telecommunication network routing;telecommunication network reliability;land mobile radio;estimation theory;prediction-based link availability estimation;mobile ad hoc networks;routing;MANET;reliable path;radio links;link availability;estimation algorithm;path selection;network performance;Mobile ad hoc networks;Routing;Availability;Stability;Computer network reliability;Quality of service;Time measurement;Radio link;Current measurement;Helium', 'ID': u'916672', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2001. Conference on Computer Communications. Twentieth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Society (Cat. No.01CH37213)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2012.6195468', u'author': u'Yujun Zhang and Guiling Wang and Qi Hu and Zhongcheng Li and Jie Tian', u'title': u'Design and performance study of a Topology-Hiding Multipath Routing protocol for mobile ad hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Existing multipath routing protocols for MANET ignore the topology-exposure problem. This paper analyzes the threat of topology-exposure and proposes a Topology-Hiding Multipath Routing protocol (THMR). THMR doesn't allow packets to carry routing information, so malicious nodes cannot deduce topology information and launch various attacks based on that. The protocol can also establish multiple node-disjoint routes in a route discovery attempt and exclude unreliable routes before transmitting packets. We formally prove that THMR is loop-free and topology-hiding. Simulation results show that our protocol has better capability of finding routes and can greatly increase the capability of delivering packets in the scenario where there are attackers at the cost of low routing overhead.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'10-18', u'year': u'2012', u'keywords': u'mobile ad hoc networks;routing protocols;telecommunication network topology;telecommunication security;topology hiding multipath routing protocol;mobile ad hoc networks;MANET;topology-exposure threat;topology information;route discovery;loop-free routing;topology-hiding routing;Routing protocols;Routing;Network topology;Mobile ad hoc networks;Topology;Probes', 'ID': u'6195468', u'booktitle': u'2012 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2009.5061907', u'author': u'Y. Li and Y. Yang and X. Lu', u'title': u'Routing Metric Designs for Greedy, Face and Combined-Greedy-Face Routing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Different geographic routing protocols have different requirements on routing metric designs to ensure proper operation. Combining a wrong type of routing metric with a geographic routing protocol may produce unexpected results, such as geographic routing loops and unreachable nodes. In this paper, we propose a novel routing algebra system to investigate the compatibilities between routing metrics and three geographic routing protocols including greedy, face and combined-greedy- face routing. Four important algebraic properties, respectively named odd symmetry, transitivity, source independence and local minimum freeness, are defined in this algebra system. Based on these algebraic properties, the necessary and sufficient conditions for loop-free and delivery guaranteed routing are derived when greedy, face and combined-greedy-face routing serve as packet forwarding schemes or as path discovery algorithms respectively. Our work provides essential criterions for evaluating and designing geographic routing protocols.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'64-72', u'year': u'2009', u'keywords': u'greedy algorithms;routing protocols;unreachable nodes;geographic routing protocols;combined-Greedy-face routing;routing metric designs;Routing protocols;Algebra;Wireless networks;Design engineering;Global Positioning System;Switches;Communications Society;Computer science;USA Councils;Peer to peer computing', 'ID': u'5061907', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2009'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2002.1019423', u'author': u'J. Sucec and I. Marsic', u'title': u'Clustering overhead for hierarchical routing in mobile ad hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Numerous clustering algorithms have been proposed that can support routing in mobile ad hoc networks (MANET). However, there is very little formal analysis that considers the communication overhead incurred by these procedures. Further, there is no published investigation of the overhead associated with the recursive application of clustering algorithms to support hierarchical routing. This paper provides a theoretical upper bound on the communication overhead incurred by a particular clustering algorithm for hierarchical routing in MANET. It is demonstrated that, given reasonable assumptions, the average clustering overhead generated per node per second is only polylogarithmic in the node count. To derive this result, novel techniques to assess cluster maintenance overhead are employed.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1698-1706 vol.3', u'year': u'2002', u'keywords': u'telecommunication network routing;mobile computing;ad hoc networks;mobile radio;hierarchical routing;mobile ad hoc networks;MANET;communication overhead;recursive application;upper bound;polylogarithmic node count;cluster maintenance overhead;Routing;Intelligent networks;Mobile ad hoc networks;Clustering algorithms;Network topology;Scalability;Measurement;Performance analysis;Mobile communication;Upper bound', 'ID': u'1019423', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings.Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2004.1354515', u'author': u'Xiang-Yang Li and Yu Weng and Peng-Jun Wan and Wen-Zhan Song and O. Frieder', u'title': u'Localized low-weight graph and its applications in wireless ad hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"We propose a new localized structure, namely, Incident MST and RNG Graph (IMRG), for topology control and broadcasting in wireless ad hoc networks. In the construction algorithm, each node first builds a modified relative neighborhood graph (RNG'), and then informs its one-hop neighbors its incident edges in RNG'. Each node then collects all its one-hop neighbors and the two-hop neighbors who have RNG edges to some of its one-hop neighbors, and builds an Euclidean minimum spanning tree of these nodes. Each node u keeps an edge uv only if uv is in the constructed minimum spanning tree. We analytically prove that the node degree of the IMRG is at most 6, it is connected and planar, and more importantly, the total edge length of the IMRG is within a constant factor of that of the minimum spanning tree. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first algorithm that can construct a structure with all these properties using small communication messages (at most 13n total messages, each with O(logn) bits) and small computation cost, where n is the number of wireless nodes. Test results are corroborated in the simulation study.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'1', u'pages': u'431-442', u'year': u'2004', u'keywords': u'ad hoc networks;telecommunication network topology;graph theory;localized low-weight graph;wireless ad hoc networks;incident MST-RNG graph;IMRG;topology control;modified relative neighborhood graph;one-hop neighbors;Euclidean minimum spanning tree;Intelligent networks;Ad hoc networks;Mobile ad hoc networks;Network topology;Relays;Wireless networks;Costs;Application software;Computer science;Tree graphs', 'ID': u'1354515', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2004'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2003.1208990', u'author': u'N. Bansal and Z. Liu', u'title': u'Capacity, delay and mobility in wireless ad-hoc networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Network throughput and packet delay are two important parameters in the design and the evaluation of routing protocols for ad-hoc networks. While mobility has been shown to increase the capacity of a network, it is not clear whether the delay can be kept low without trading off the throughput. We consider a theoretical framework and propose a routing algorithm which exploits the patterns in the mobility of nodes to provide guarantees on the delay. Moreover, the throughput achieved by the algorithm is only a poly-logarithmic factor off from the optimal. The algorithm itself is fairly simple. In order to analyze its feasibility and the performance guarantee, we used various techniques of probabilistic analysis of algorithms. The approach taken in this paper could be applied to the analyses of some other routing algorithms for mobile ad hoc networks proposed in the literature.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'1553-1563 vol.2', u'year': u'2003', u'keywords': u'ad hoc networks;delays;routing protocols;network throughput;packet delay;routing protocols;ad-hoc networks;routing algorithm;nodes mobility;poly-logarithmic factor;probabilistic analysis;wireless communication;network capacity;Intelligent networks;Ad hoc networks;Throughput;Routing protocols;Algorithm design and analysis;Relays;Performance analysis;Mobile ad hoc networks;Wireless networks;Network topology', 'ID': u'1208990', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2003. Twenty-second Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (IEEE Cat. No.03CH37428)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2002.1019422', u'author': u'C. A. Santivanez and B. McDonald and I. Stavrakakis and R. Ramanathan', u'title': u'On the scalability of ad hoc routing protocols', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'A novel framework is presented for the study of scalability in ad hoc networks. Using this framework, the first asymptotic analysis is provided with respect to network size, mobility, and traffic for each fundamental class of ad hoc routing algorithms. Protocols studied include the following: plain flooding (PF), standard link state (SLS), dynamic source routing (DSR), hierarchical link state (HierLS), zone routing protocol (ZRP), and hazy sighted link state (HSLS). It is shown that PF and ZRP scale better with mobility, SIJS and ZRP scale better with respect to traffic, and HSLS scales better with respect to network size. The analysis provides deeper understanding of the limits and trade-offs inherent in mobile ad hoc network routing. Our analysis is complemented with a simulation experiment comparing HSLS and HierLS. An important contribution of this paper is that HSLS is an scalable, easy-to-implement, alternative to hierarchical approaches for large ad hoc networks.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'June', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1688-1697 vol.3', u'year': u'2002', u'keywords': u'routing protocols;ad hoc networks;telecommunication traffic;mobile computing;mobile radio;scalability;ad hoc routing protocols;asymptotic analysis;network size;mobility;traffic;plain flooding protocol;standard link state protocol;dynamic source routing protocol;hierarchical link state protocol;zone routing protocol;hazy sighted link state protocol;mobile ad hoc network routing;HSLS protocol;HierLS protocol;PF protocol;SLS protocol;DSR protocol;ZRP protocol;Scalability;Routing protocols;Ad hoc networks;Telecommunication traffic;Algorithm design and analysis;Floods;Laser sintering;Traffic control;Mobile ad hoc networks;Analytical models', 'ID': u'1019422', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings.Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies'}
