{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2008.234', u'author': u'K. P. N. Puttaswamy and A. Sala and B. Y. Zhao', u'title': u'Searching for Rare Objects Using Index Replication', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Searching for objects is a fundamental problem for popular peer-to-peer file-sharing networks that contribute to much of the traffic on today\'s Internet. While existing protocols can effectively locate highly popular files, studies show that they fail to locate a significant portion of existing files in the network. High recall for these "rare" objects would drastically improve the user experience, and make these networks the ideal distribution infrastructure for user-generated content such as home videos and photo albums. In this paper, we examine simple techniques that can improve search recall for rare objects while minimizing the overhead incurred by participating peers. We propose several strategies for multi-hop index replication, and demonstrate their effectiveness and efficiency through both analysis and simulation. We further evaluate our simple techniques using detailed traces from a real Gnutella network, and show that they improve the performance of these overlays by orders of magnitude in both lookup success and overhead.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1723-1731', u'year': u'2008', u'keywords': u'indexing;Internet;peer-to-peer computing;rare objects searching;peer-to-peer file-sharing networks;Internet traffic;distribution infrastructure;user-generated content;multihop index replication;Bandwidth;Peer to peer computing;Telecommunication traffic;Floods;Communications Society;Computer science;IP networks;Protocols;User-generated content;Videos', 'ID': u'4509829', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2008 - The 27th Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2007.256', u'author': u'G. Neglia and G. Reina and H. Zhang and D. Towsley and A. Venkataramani and J. Danaher', u'title': u'Availability in BitTorrent Systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"In this paper, we investigate the problem of highly available, massive-scale file distribution in the Internet. To this end, we conduct a large-scale measurement study of BitTorrent, a popular class of systems that use swarms of actively downloading peers to assist each other in file distribution. The first generation of BitTorrent systems used a central tracker to enable coordination among peers, resulting in low availability due to the tracker's single point of failure. Our study analyzes the prevalence and impact of two recent trends to improve BitTorrent availability: (i) use of multiple trackers, and (ii) use of Distributed Hash Tables (DHTs), both of which also help to balance load better. The study considered more than 1,400 trackers and 24,000 DHT nodes (extracted from about 20,000 torrents) over a period of two months. We find that both trends improve availability, but for different and somewhat unexpected reasons. Our findings include: (i) multiple trackers improve availability, but the improvement largely comes from the choice of a single highly available tracker, (ii) such improvement is reduced by the presence of correlated failures, (iii) multiple trackers can significantly reduce the connectivity of the overlay formed by peers, (iv) the DHT improves information availability, but induces a higher response latency to peer queries.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2216-2224', u'year': u'2007', u'keywords': u'file organisation;Internet;peer-to-peer computing;query processing;resource allocation;table lookup;BitTorrent system;massive-scale file distribution;Internet;downloading peers;distributed hash tables;load balancing;peer query;Availability;Peer to peer computing;Internet;Delay;Computer science;Security;Communications Society;Large-scale systems;Spine;File servers', 'ID': u'4215838', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2007 - 26th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2001.916295', u'author': u'G. Kar and A. Keller', u'title': u'An architecture for managing application services over global networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'This paper proposes a novel approach for providing end-to-end management of application services that have been deployed over large IP networks. A key feature of the proposed architecture is that it can be implemented as enhancements to existing, commercial network management platforms, thus allowing network service providers to offer new functionality by leveraging existing, deployed infrastructures.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'1020-1027 vol.2', u'year': u'2001', u'keywords': u'Internet;computer network management;application services;global networks;architecture;end-to-end management;IP networks;enhancement;network management platform;functionality;Content management;Environmental management;IP networks;Web and internet services;Switches;Virtual private networks;Costs;Customer service;Monitoring;Service oriented architecture', 'ID': u'916295', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2001. Conference on Computer Communications. Twentieth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Society (Cat. No.01CH37213)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2000.832238', u'author': u'N. Miller and P. Steenkiste', u'title': u'Collecting network status information for network-aware applications', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Network-aware applications, i.e., applications that adapt to network conditions in an application-specific way, need both static and dynamic information about the network to be able to adapt intelligently to network conditions. The CMU Remos interface gives applications access to a wide range of information in a network-independent fashion. Remos uses a logical topology to capture the network information that is relevant to applications in a concise way. However, collecting this information efficiently is challenging for several reasons: networks use diverse technologies and can be very large (Internet); applications need diverse information; and network managers might have concerns about leaking confidential information. In this paper we present an architecture for a hierarchical collector of network information. The decentralized architecture relies on data collectors that collect information on individual subnets; data collectors can collect information in manner that is appropriate for that subnet and can control the distribution of the information. For application queries that involve multiple subnets, we use a set of master collectors to partition requests and distribute subrequests to individual data collectors and to combine the results. Collectors cache recent network information to improve efficiency and responsiveness. This paper presents and justifies the collector architecture, describes a prototype implementation, and presents preliminary measurements characterizing its operation.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'641-650 vol.2', u'year': u'2000', u'keywords': u'Internet;data acquisition;cache storage;network status information;network-aware applications;CMU Remos interface;logical topology;Internet;hierarchical collector;decentralized architecture;data collectors;subnets;caching;Application software;Intelligent networks;Streaming media;Distributed computing;Bandwidth;Feedback;Delay estimation;Computer science;Electronic mail;Network topology', 'ID': u'832238', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2000. Conference on Computer Communications. Nineteenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (Cat. No.00CH37064)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2005.1498434', u'author': u'Xin Chen and Shansi Ren and Haining Wang and Xiaodong zhang', u'title': u'SCOPE: scalable consistency maintenance in structured P2P systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'While current peer-to-peer (P2P) systems facilitate static file sharing, newly developed applications demand that P2P systems be able to manage dynamically changing files. Maintaining consistency between frequently updated files and their replicas is a fundamental reliability requirement for a P2P system. In this paper, we present SCOPE, a structured P2P system supporting consistency among a large number of replicas. By building a replica-partition-tree (RPT) for each key, SCOPE keeps track of the locations of replicas and then propagates update notifications. Our theoretical analyses and experimental results demonstrate that SCOPE can effectively maintain replica consistency while preventing hot spot and node-failure problems. Its efficiency in maintenance and failure-recovery is particularly attractive to the deployment of large-scale P2P systems.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1502-1513 vol. 3', u'year': u'2005', u'keywords': u'peer-to-peer computing;file organisation;maintenance engineering;computer network reliability;trees (mathematics);scalable consistency maintenance;structured P2P systems;peer-to-peer systems;dynamically-changing files management;replica-partition-tree;failure-recovery;Computer science;Educational institutions;Peer to peer computing;Maintenance;Buildings;Broadcasting;Privacy;Application software;Large-scale systems;Publishing', 'ID': u'1498434', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE 24th Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies.'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2005.1498570', u'author': u'D. Stutzbach and R. Rejaie', u'title': u'Capturing accurate snapshots of the Gnutella network', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'A common approach for measurement-based characterization of peer-to-peer (P2P) systems is to capture overlay snapshots using a crawler. The accuracy of captured snapshots by P2P crawlers directly depends on both the crawling speed and the fraction of unreachable peers. This in turn affects the accuracy of the conducted characterization based on these captured snapshots. Prior studies frequently rely on crawling the network over an hour or more, during which time the overlay may change substantially. Moreover, none of the previous measurement-based studies on P2P systems have examined the accuracy of their captured snapshots or the impact on conducted characterization.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'4', u'pages': u'2825-2830 vol. 4', u'year': u'2005', u'keywords': u'peer-to-peer computing;telecommunication network topology;measurement-based characterization;peer-to-peer system;P2P;snapshots capturing;crawler;Gnutella network;cruiser;Crawlers;Peer to peer computing;Topology;Web pages;Information science;Error correction;Internet;Bandwidth;Sun', 'ID': u'1498570', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE 24th Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies.'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.1998.665101', u'author': u'Z. -. Fei and S. Bhattacharjee and E. W. Zegura and M. H. Ammar', u'title': u'A novel server selection technique for improving the response time of a replicated service', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Server replication is an approach often used to improve the ability of a service to handle a large number of clients. One of the important factors in the efficient utilization of replicated servers is the ability to direct client requests to the best server, according to some optimality criteria. In this paper we target an environment in which servers are distributed across the Internet, and clients identify servers using our application-layer any-casting service. Our goal is to allocate servers to clients in a way that minimizes a client's response time. To that end, we develop an approach for estimating the performance that a client would experience when accessing particular servers. Such information is maintained in a resolver that clients can query to obtain the identity of the server with the best response time. Our performance collection technique combines server push with client probes to estimate the expected response time. A set of experiments is used to demonstrate the properties of our performance determination approach and to show its advantages when used within the application-layer anycasting architecture.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'2', u'pages': u'783-791 vol.2', u'year': u'1998', u'keywords': u'Internet;network servers;performance evaluation;server selection;response time improvement;replicated service;replicated servers;distributed servers;Internet;application-layer any-casting service;performance collection technique;server push;client probes;experiments;network architecture;HTTP servers;Delay;Web server;Network servers;Proposals;Educational institutions;Computer networks;Telecommunication computing;Web and internet services;Casting;Probes', 'ID': u'665101', u'booktitle': u"Proceedings. IEEE INFOCOM '98, the Conference on Computer Communications. Seventeenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Gateway to the 21st Century (Cat. No.98"}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486294', u'author': u'J. Narm and H. Jot and Y. Kim and P. Porras and V. Yegneswaran and S. Shin', u'title': u'Barista: An Event-centric NOS Composition Framework for Software-Defined Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'As the network operating system (NOS) is the strategic control center of a software-defined network (SDN), its design is critical to the welfare of the network. Contemporary research has largely focused on specialized NOSs that seek to optimize controller design across one or a few dimensions (e.g., scalability, performance, or security) due to fundamental differences in architectural trade-offs needed to support competing demands. We thus designed Barista, as a new framework that enables flexible and customizable instantiations of network operating systems (NOSs) supporting diverse design choices. The Barista framework incorporates two mechanisms to harmonize architectural differences across design choices: component synthesis and dynamic event control. First, the modular design of the Barista framework enables flexible composition of functionalities prevalent in contemporary SDN controllers. Second, its event-handling mechanism enables dynamic adjustment of control flows in a NOS. These capabilities allow operators to easily enable functionalities and dynamically handle associated events, thereby satisfying network operating requirements. Our results demonstrate that Barista can synthesize NOSs with many functionalities found in commodity NOSs with competitive performance profiles.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'980-988', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'control system synthesis;formal specification;network operating systems;optimal control;software architecture;software defined networking;Web services;strategic control center;software-defined network;event-centric NOS composition framework;network operating requirements;control flows;event-handling mechanism;contemporary SDN controllers;modular design;dynamic event control;network operating system;customizable instantiations;Security;Scalability;Conferences;Network operating systems;Computer architecture;Robustness', 'ID': u'8486294', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486294', u'author': u'J. Narm and H. Jot and Y. Kim and P. Porras and V. Yegneswaran and S. Shin', u'title': u'Barista: An Event-centric NOS Composition Framework for Software-Defined Networks', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'As the network operating system (NOS) is the strategic control center of a software-defined network (SDN), its design is critical to the welfare of the network. Contemporary research has largely focused on specialized NOSs that seek to optimize controller design across one or a few dimensions (e.g., scalability, performance, or security) due to fundamental differences in architectural trade-offs needed to support competing demands. We thus designed Barista, as a new framework that enables flexible and customizable instantiations of network operating systems (NOSs) supporting diverse design choices. The Barista framework incorporates two mechanisms to harmonize architectural differences across design choices: component synthesis and dynamic event control. First, the modular design of the Barista framework enables flexible composition of functionalities prevalent in contemporary SDN controllers. Second, its event-handling mechanism enables dynamic adjustment of control flows in a NOS. These capabilities allow operators to easily enable functionalities and dynamically handle associated events, thereby satisfying network operating requirements. Our results demonstrate that Barista can synthesize NOSs with many functionalities found in commodity NOSs with competitive performance profiles.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'980-988', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'control system synthesis;formal specification;network operating systems;optimal control;software architecture;software defined networking;Web services;strategic control center;software-defined network;event-centric NOS composition framework;network operating requirements;control flows;event-handling mechanism;contemporary SDN controllers;modular design;dynamic event control;network operating system;customizable instantiations;Security;Scalability;Conferences;Network operating systems;Computer architecture;Robustness', 'ID': u'8486294', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2003.1209237', u'author': u'K. Sripanidkulchai and B. Maggs and H. Zhang', u'title': u'Efficient content location using interest-based locality in peer-to-peer systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Locating content in decentralized peer-to-peer systems is a challenging problem. Gnutella, a popular file-sharing application, relies on flooding queries to all peers. Although flooding is simple and robust, it is not scalable. We explore how to retain the simplicity of Gnutella, while addressing its inherent weakness: scalability. We propose a content location solution in which peers loosely organize themselves into an interest-based structure on top of the existing Gnutella network. Our approach exploits a simple, yet powerful principle called interest-based locality, which posits that if a peer has a particular piece of content that one is interested in, it is very likely that it will have other items that one is interested in as well. When using our algorithm, called interest-based shortcuts, a significant amount of flooding can be avoided, making Gnutella a more competitive solution. In addition, shortcuts are modular and can be used to improve the performance of other content location mechanisms including distributed hash table schemes. We demonstrate the existence of interest-based locality in five diverse traces of content distribution applications, two of which are traces of popular peer-to-peer file-sharing applications. Simulation results show that interest-based shortcuts often resolve queries quickly in one peer-to-peer hop, while reducing the total load in the system by a factor of 3 to 7.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'2166-2176 vol.3', u'year': u'2003', u'keywords': u'Internet;file organisation;interest-based locality;decentralized peer-to-peer systems;Gnutella network;file-sharing application;flooding queries;content location mechanism;distributed hash table;Peer to peer computing;Robustness;Scalability;Floods;Internet;Availability;Contracts;Content management;Costs;Engineering profession', 'ID': u'1209237', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2003. Twenty-second Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (IEEE Cat. No.03CH37428)'}
