{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057217', u'author': u'G. Xie and K. Xie and J. Huang and X. Wang and Y. Chen and J. Wen', u'title': u'Fast low-rank matrix approximation with locality sensitive hashing for quick anomaly detection', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Detecting anomalous traffic is a critical task for advanced Internet management. The traditional approaches based on Principal Component Analysis (PCA) are effective only when the corruption is caused by small additive i.i.d. Gaussian noise. The recent Direct Robust Matrix Factorization (DRMF) is proven to be more robust and accurate in anomaly detection, but it incurs a high computation cost due to its need of singular value decomposition (SVD) for low-rank matrix approximation and the iterative use of SVD execution to find the final solution. To enable the anomaly detection for large traffic matrix with the use of DRMF, we formulate the low-rank matrix approximation problem as a problem of searching for the subspace to project the traffic matrix with the minimum error. We propose a novel approach, LSH-subspace, for fast low-rank matrix approximation. To facilitate the matrix partition for the quick search of the subspace, we propose several novel techniques: a multi-layer locality sensitive hashing (LSH) table to reorder the OD pairs based on LSH function, a partition principle to guide the partition to minimize the projection error, and a lightweight algorithm to exploit the sparsity of the outlier matrix to update the LSH table at low overhead. Our extensive simulations based on real trace data demonstrate that our LSH-subspace is 3 times faster than DRMF with high anomaly detection accuracy.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'approximation theory;Internet;matrix decomposition;security of data;singular value decomposition;fast low-rank matrix approximation;quick anomaly detection;DRMF;traffic matrix;low-rank matrix approximation problem;LSH-subspace;matrix partition;multilayer locality sensitive hashing table;outlier matrix;high anomaly detection accuracy;anomalous traffic detection;direct robust matrix factorization;SVD execution;singular value decomposition;multilayer locality sensitive hashing;partition principle;Anomaly detection;Principal component analysis;Matrix decomposition;Robustness;Approximation algorithms;Noise measurement;Sparse matrices;Low-Rank Matrix Approximation;Anomaly Detection', 'ID': u'8057217', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057217', u'author': u'G. Xie and K. Xie and J. Huang and X. Wang and Y. Chen and J. Wen', u'title': u'Fast low-rank matrix approximation with locality sensitive hashing for quick anomaly detection', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Detecting anomalous traffic is a critical task for advanced Internet management. The traditional approaches based on Principal Component Analysis (PCA) are effective only when the corruption is caused by small additive i.i.d. Gaussian noise. The recent Direct Robust Matrix Factorization (DRMF) is proven to be more robust and accurate in anomaly detection, but it incurs a high computation cost due to its need of singular value decomposition (SVD) for low-rank matrix approximation and the iterative use of SVD execution to find the final solution. To enable the anomaly detection for large traffic matrix with the use of DRMF, we formulate the low-rank matrix approximation problem as a problem of searching for the subspace to project the traffic matrix with the minimum error. We propose a novel approach, LSH-subspace, for fast low-rank matrix approximation. To facilitate the matrix partition for the quick search of the subspace, we propose several novel techniques: a multi-layer locality sensitive hashing (LSH) table to reorder the OD pairs based on LSH function, a partition principle to guide the partition to minimize the projection error, and a lightweight algorithm to exploit the sparsity of the outlier matrix to update the LSH table at low overhead. Our extensive simulations based on real trace data demonstrate that our LSH-subspace is 3 times faster than DRMF with high anomaly detection accuracy.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'approximation theory;Internet;matrix decomposition;security of data;singular value decomposition;fast low-rank matrix approximation;quick anomaly detection;DRMF;traffic matrix;low-rank matrix approximation problem;LSH-subspace;matrix partition;multilayer locality sensitive hashing table;outlier matrix;high anomaly detection accuracy;anomalous traffic detection;direct robust matrix factorization;SVD execution;singular value decomposition;multilayer locality sensitive hashing;partition principle;Anomaly detection;Principal component analysis;Matrix decomposition;Robustness;Approximation algorithms;Noise measurement;Sparse matrices;Low-Rank Matrix Approximation;Anomaly Detection', 'ID': u'8057217', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5934975', u'author': u'K. Nyalkalkar and S. Sinhay and M. Bailey and F. Jahanian', u'title': u'A comparative study of two network-based anomaly detection methods', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Modern networks are complex and hence, network operators often rely on automation to assist in assuring the security, availability, and performance of these networks. At the core of many of these systems are general-purpose anomaly-detection algorithms that seek to identify normal behavior and detect deviations. While the number and variations of these algorithms are large, two broad categories have emerged as leading approaches to this problem: those based on spatial correlation and those based on temporal analysis. In this paper, we compare one promising approach from each of these categories, namely entropy-based PCA and HHH-based wavelets.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'176-180', u'year': u'2011', u'keywords': u'principal component analysis;telecommunication network management;telecommunication network reliability;telecommunication security;network-based anomaly detection method;network operators;modern network automation;modern networksecurity;general-purpose anomaly detection algorithm;temporal analysis;entropy-based PCA;HHH-based wavelet;Measurement;Principal component analysis;Time series analysis;Correlation;Accuracy;Detectors;Algorithm design and analysis', 'ID': u'5934975', u'booktitle': u'2011 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2012.6195548', u'author': u'C. Pascoal and M. R. de Oliveira and R. Valadas and P. Filzmoser and P. Salvador and A. Pacheco', u'title': u'Robust feature selection and robust PCA for internet traffic anomaly detection', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Robust statistics is a branch of statistics which includes statistical methods capable of dealing adequately with the presence of outliers. In this paper, we propose an anomaly detection method that combines a feature selection algorithm and an outlier detection method, which makes extensive use of robust statistics. Feature selection is based on a mutual information metric for which we have developed a robust estimator; it also includes a novel and automatic procedure for determining the number of relevant features. Outlier detection is based on robust Principal Component Analysis (PCA) which, opposite to classical PCA, is not sensitive to outliers and precludes the necessity of training using a reliably labeled dataset, a strong advantage from the operational point of view. To evaluate our method we designed a network scenario capable of producing a perfect ground-truth under real (but controlled) traffic conditions. Results show the significant improvements of our method over the corresponding classical ones. Moreover, despite being a largely overlooked issue in the context of anomaly detection, feature selection is found to be an important preprocessing step, allowing adaption to different network conditions and inducing significant performance gains.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1755-1763', u'year': u'2012', u'keywords': u'Internet;principal component analysis;telecommunication traffic;robust feature selection;robust PCA;Internet traffic anomaly detection;robust statistics;outlier detection method;principal component analysis;network scenario;ground-truth;Robustness;Principal component analysis;Feature extraction;Vectors;Measurement;Estimation;Gaussian distribution', 'ID': u'6195548', u'booktitle': u'2012 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6566967', u'author': u'M. Malboubi and C. Vu and C. Chuah and P. Sharma', u'title': u'Decentralizing network inference problems with Multiple-Description Fusion Estimation (MDFE)', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Two forms of network inference (or tomography) problems have been studied rigorously: (a) traffic matrix estimation or completion based on link-level traffic measurements, and (b) link-level loss or delay inference based on end-to-end measurements. These problems are often posed as underdetermined linear inverse (UDLI) problems and solved in a centralized manner, where all the measurements are collected at a central node, which then applies a variety of inference techniques to estimate the attributes of interest. This paper proposes a novel framework for decentralizing these large-scale UDLI network inference problems by intelligently partitioning it into smaller sub-problems and solving them independently and in parallel. The resulting estimates, referred to as multiple descriptions, can then be fused together to compute the global estimate. We apply this Multiple Description and Fusion Estimation (MDFE) framework to three classical problems: traffic matrix estimation, traffic matrix completion, and loss inference. Using real topologies and traces, we demonstrate how MDFE can speed up computation time while maintaining (even improving) the estimation accuracy and how it enhances robustness against noise and failures. We also show that our MDFE framework is compatible with a variety of existing inference techniques used to solve the UDLI problems.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1699-1707', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'delays;inference mechanisms;Internet;matrix algebra;telecommunication traffic;decentralizing network inference problem;multiple-description fusion estimation;MDFE;link-level traffic measurements;link-level loss;delay inference;end-to-end measurement;under-determined linear inverse;UDLI network inference problem;traffic matrix estimation;traffic matrix completion;MDFE framework;inference technique;Internet;Estimation;Partitioning algorithms;Accuracy;Loss measurement;Robustness;Complexity theory;Clustering algorithms', 'ID': u'6566967', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.291', u'author': u'W. Wei and S. Jaiswal and J. Kurose and D. Towsley', u'title': u'Identifying 802.11 Traffic from Passive Measurements Using Iterative Bayesian Inference', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': '', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-12', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'Bayesian methods;Communication system security;Wireless LAN;Inference algorithms;Iterative algorithms;Maximum likelihood estimation;Wireless networks;Ethernet networks;Telecommunication traffic;Monitoring', 'ID': u'4146944', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486327', u'author': u'S. Xue and L. Zhang and A. Li and X. Li and C. Ruan and W. Huang', u'title': u'AppDNA: App Behavior Profiling via Graph-based Deep Learning', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Better understanding of mobile applications' behaviors would lead to better malware detection/classification and better app recommendation for users. In this work, we design a framework AppDNA to automatically generate a compact representation for each app to comprehensively profile its behaviors. The behavior difference between two apps can be measured by the distance between their representations. As a result, the versatile representation can be generated once for each app, and then be used for a wide variety of objectives, including malware detection, app categorizing, plagiarism detection, etc. Based on a systematic and deep understanding of an app's behavior, we propose to perform a function-call-graph-based app profiling. We carefully design a graph-encoding method to convert a typically extremely large call-graph to a 64-dimension fix-size vector to achieve robust app profiling. Our extensive evaluations based on 86,332 benign and malicious apps demonstrate that our system performs app profiling (thus malware detection, classification, and app recommendation) to a high accuracy with extremely low computation cost: it classifies 4024 (benign/malware) apps using around 5.06 second with accuracy about 93.07%; it classifies 570 malware's family (total 21 families) using around 0.83 second with accuracy 82.3%; it classifies 9,730 apps' functionality with accuracy 33.3% for a total of 7 categories and accuracy of 88.1 % for 2 categories.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1475-1483', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'graph theory;invasive software;learning (artificial intelligence);mobile computing;pattern classification;app recommendation;function-call-graph-based app profiling;graph-encoding method;malicious apps;app behavior profiling;malware detection;benign apps;mobile applications behaviors;malware classification;AppDNA;graph-based deep learning;Malware;Feature extraction;Encoding;Task analysis;Plagiarism;Neural networks;Machine learning', 'ID': u'8486327', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486327', u'author': u'S. Xue and L. Zhang and A. Li and X. Li and C. Ruan and W. Huang', u'title': u'AppDNA: App Behavior Profiling via Graph-based Deep Learning', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"Better understanding of mobile applications' behaviors would lead to better malware detection/classification and better app recommendation for users. In this work, we design a framework AppDNA to automatically generate a compact representation for each app to comprehensively profile its behaviors. The behavior difference between two apps can be measured by the distance between their representations. As a result, the versatile representation can be generated once for each app, and then be used for a wide variety of objectives, including malware detection, app categorizing, plagiarism detection, etc. Based on a systematic and deep understanding of an app's behavior, we propose to perform a function-call-graph-based app profiling. We carefully design a graph-encoding method to convert a typically extremely large call-graph to a 64-dimension fix-size vector to achieve robust app profiling. Our extensive evaluations based on 86,332 benign and malicious apps demonstrate that our system performs app profiling (thus malware detection, classification, and app recommendation) to a high accuracy with extremely low computation cost: it classifies 4024 (benign/malware) apps using around 5.06 second with accuracy about 93.07%; it classifies 570 malware's family (total 21 families) using around 0.83 second with accuracy 82.3%; it classifies 9,730 apps' functionality with accuracy 33.3% for a total of 7 categories and accuracy of 88.1 % for 2 categories.", u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1475-1483', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'graph theory;invasive software;learning (artificial intelligence);mobile computing;pattern classification;app recommendation;function-call-graph-based app profiling;graph-encoding method;malicious apps;app behavior profiling;malware detection;benign apps;mobile applications behaviors;malware classification;AppDNA;graph-based deep learning;Malware;Feature extraction;Encoding;Task analysis;Plagiarism;Neural networks;Machine learning', 'ID': u'8486327', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2006.76', u'author': u'E. Kim and S. Kim', u'title': u'Anomaly Detection in Network Security Based on Nonparametric Techniques', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'In this paper, we propose a hybrid feature selection method in which Principal Components Analysis is combined with optimized k- Means clustering technique. Our approach hierarchically reduces the redundancy of features with high explanation in PCA for choosing a good subset of features critical to improve the performance of classifiers. Based on this result, we evaluate the performance of intrusion detection by using a nonparametric density estimation approach based on Parzen-Window and k-Nearest Neighbor classifiers over data sets with reduced features. The experiment with KDD Cup 1999 data set show several advantages in terms of computational complexity and our method achieves significant detection rate which shows possibility of detecting successfully attacks.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-2', u'year': u'2006', u'keywords': u'principal component analysis;security of data;statistical analysis;telecommunication security;anomaly detection;network security;nonparametric techniques;hybrid feature selection method;principal components analysis;k- means clustering technique;PCA;intrusion detection;k-nearest neighbor classifiers;nonparametric density estimation;Parzen-Window classifiers;Intrusion detection;Principal component analysis;Training data;Data mining;Clustering algorithms;Feature extraction;Algorithm design and analysis;Data security;Redundancy;Kernel', 'ID': u'4146729', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057209', u'author': u'L. Xie and X. Dong and W. Wang and D. Huang', u'title': u'Meta-activity recognition: A wearable approach for logic cognition-based activity sensing', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Activity sensing has become a key technology for many ubiquitous applications, such as exercise monitoring and elder care. Most traditional approaches track the human motions and perform activity recognition based on the waveform matching schemes in the raw data representation level. In regard to the complex activities with relatively large moving range, they usually fail to accurately recognize these activities, due to the inherent variations in human activities. In this paper, we propose a wearable approach for logic cognition-based activity sensing scheme in the logical representation level, by leveraging the meta-activity recognition. Our solution extracts the angle profiles from the raw inertial measurements, to depict the angle variation of limb movement in regard to the consistent body coordinate system. It further extracts the meta-activity profiles to depict the sequence of small-range activity units in the complex activity. By leveraging the least edit distance-based matching scheme, our solution is able to accurately perform the activity sensing. Based on the logic cognition-based activity sensing, our solution achieves lightweight-training recognition, which requires a small quantity of training samples to build the templates, and user-independent recognition, which requires no training from the specific user. The experiment results in real settings shows that our meta-activity recognition achieves an average accuracy of 92% for user-independent activity sensing.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'cognition;feature extraction;geriatrics;medical signal processing;patient monitoring;ubiquitous computing;wearable computers;meta-activity recognition;wearable approach;raw data representation level;complex activity;human activities;logical representation level;meta-activity profiles;small-range activity units;user-independent activity sensing;logic cognition-based activity sensing;ubiquitous applications;exercise monitoring;elder care;human motions;waveform matching;least edit distance-based matching scheme;limb movement;Coordinate measuring machines;Motion measurement;Training;Activity recognition;Transforms;Optical wavelength conversion', 'ID': u'8057209', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
