{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486381', u'author': u'G. Chen and T. Lai and M. K. Reiter and Y. Zhang', u'title': u'Differentially Private Access Patterns for Searchable Symmetric Encryption', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Searchable encryption enables searches to be performed on encrypted documents stored on an untrusted server without exposing the documents or the search terms to the server. Nevertheless, the server typically learns which encrypted documents match the query-the so-called access pattern-since the server must return those documents. Recent studies have demonstrated that access patterns can be used to infer the search terms in some scenarios. In this paper, we propose a framework to protect systems using searchable symmetric encryption from access-pattern leakage. Our technique is based on d-privacy, a generalized version of differential privacy that provides provable security guarantees against adversaries with arbitrary background knowledge.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'810-818', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'cryptography;data privacy;query processing;differentially private access patterns;searchable symmetric encryption;searchable encryption;encrypted documents;untrusted server;search terms;access-pattern leakage;differential privacy;d-privacy;provable security guarantees;Servers;Encryption;Indexes;Probabilistic logic', 'ID': u'8486381', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2018.8486381', u'author': u'G. Chen and T. Lai and M. K. Reiter and Y. Zhang', u'title': u'Differentially Private Access Patterns for Searchable Symmetric Encryption', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Searchable encryption enables searches to be performed on encrypted documents stored on an untrusted server without exposing the documents or the search terms to the server. Nevertheless, the server typically learns which encrypted documents match the query-the so-called access pattern-since the server must return those documents. Recent studies have demonstrated that access patterns can be used to infer the search terms in some scenarios. In this paper, we propose a framework to protect systems using searchable symmetric encryption from access-pattern leakage. Our technique is based on d-privacy, a generalized version of differential privacy that provides provable security guarantees against adversaries with arbitrary background knowledge.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'810-818', u'year': u'2018', u'keywords': u'cryptography;data privacy;query processing;differentially private access patterns;searchable symmetric encryption;searchable encryption;encrypted documents;untrusted server;search terms;access-pattern leakage;differential privacy;d-privacy;provable security guarantees;Servers;Encryption;Indexes;Probabilistic logic', 'ID': u'8486381', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2018 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6567100', u'author': u'K. Yang and X. Jia and K. Ren and B. Zhang', u'title': u'DAC-MACS: Effective data access control for multi-authority cloud storage systems', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Data access control is an effective way to ensure the data security in the cloud. However, due to data outsourcing and untrusted cloud servers, the data access control becomes a challenging issue in cloud storage systems. Existing access control schemes are no longer applicable to cloud storage systems, because they either produce multiple encrypted copies of the same data or require a fully trusted cloud server. Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-based Encryption (CP-ABE) is a promising technique for access control of encrypted data. It requires a trusted authority manages all the attributes and distributes keys in the system. In cloud storage systems, there are multiple authorities co-exist and each authority is able to issue attributes independently. However, existing CP-ABE schemes cannot be directly applied to data access control for multi-authority cloud storage systems, due to the inefficiency of decryption and revocation. In this paper, we propose DAC-MACS (Data Access Control for Multi-Authority Cloud Storage), an effective and secure data access control scheme with efficient decryption and revocation. Specifically, we construct a new multi-authority CP-ABE scheme with efficient decryption and also design an efficient attribute revocation method that can achieve both forward security and backward security. The analysis and the simulation results show that our DAC-MACS is highly efficient and provably secure under the security model.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2895-2903', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'authorisation;cloud computing;cryptography;network servers;outsourcing;storage management;trusted computing;cloud data security;data outsourcing;untrusted cloud servers;encrypted copies;trusted cloud server;ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption;data access control for multiauthority cloud storage;DAC-MACS;secure data access control scheme;multiauthority CP-ABE scheme;Cloud computing;Servers;Access control;Public key;Encryption;Access Control;CP-ABE;Decryption Outsourcing;Attribute Revocation;Multi-authority Cloud', 'ID': u'6567100', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2000.832537', u'author': u'M. Mut Puigserver and J. L. Ferrer Gomila and L. Huguet i Rotger', u'title': u'Certified electronic mail protocol resistant to a minority of malicious third parties', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We present the design of a protocol for certified e-mail. Some proposed certified e-mail protocols involve a third party in order to guarantee a fair exchange. Users, therefore, have to deposit a great amount of trust in a remote third party. In addition to that, the third party can become a communication bottleneck. We propose a protocol that involves an organisation of third parties, but only in case of exception. It reduces the amount of trust deposited in the third parties, because a minority of malicious third parties cannot compromise the fairness of the exchange, since all the third parties make a decision voted on by members.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'March', u'volume': u'3', u'pages': u'1401-1405 vol.3', u'year': u'2000', u'keywords': u'electronic mail;protocols;telecommunication security;public key cryptography;certified electronic mail protocol;malicious third parties;certified e-mail protocols;remote third party;communication bottleneck;public-key cryptographic primitives;Electronic mail;Public key cryptography;Cryptographic protocols;Postal services;Protection;Security;Concrete;Public key', 'ID': u'832537', u'booktitle': u'Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2000. Conference on Computer Communications. Nineteenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (Cat. No.00CH37064)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2015.7218594', u'author': u'B. Wang and W. Song and W. Lou and Y. T. Hou', u'title': u'Inverted index based multi-keyword public-key searchable encryption with strong privacy guarantee', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u"With the growing awareness of data privacy, more and more cloud users choose to encrypt their sensitive data before outsourcing them to the cloud. Search over encrypted data is therefore a critical function facilitating efficient cloud data access given the high data volume that each user has to handle nowadays. Inverted index is one of the most efficient searchable index structures and has been widely adopted in plaintext search. However, securing an inverted index and its associated search schemes is not a trivial task. A major challenge exposed from the existing efforts is the difficulty to protect user's query privacy. The challenge roots on two facts: 1) the existing solutions use a deterministic trapdoor generation function for queries; and 2) once a keyword is searched, the encrypted inverted list for this keyword is revealed to the cloud server. We denote this second property in the existing solutions as one-time-only search limitation. Additionally, conjunctive multi-keyword search, which is the most common form of query nowadays, is not supported in those works. In this paper, we propose a public-key searchable encryption scheme based on the inverted index. Our scheme preserves the high search efficiency inherited from the inverted index while lifting the one-time-only search limitation of the previous solutions. Our scheme features a probabilistic trapdoor generation algorithm and protects the search pattern. In addition, our scheme supports conjunctive multi-keyword search. Compared with the existing public key based schemes that heavily rely on expensive pairing operations, our scheme is more efficient by using only multiplications and exponentiations. To meet stronger security requirements, we strengthen our scheme with an efficient oblivious transfer protocol that hides the access pattern from the cloud. The simulation results demonstrate that our scheme is suitable for practical usage with moderate overhead.", u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'2092-2100', u'year': u'2015', u'keywords': u'cloud computing;data privacy;public key cryptography;inverted index;multikeyword public key searchable encryption;data privacy;cloud users;sensitive data;cloud data access;data volume;searchable index structures;plaintext search;user query privacy;trapdoor generation function;cloud server;conjunctive multikeyword search;public key searchable encryption scheme;probabilistic trapdoor generation algorithm;search pattern;cloud computing;Indexes;Encryption;Servers;Polynomials;Public key;Privacy', 'ID': u'7218594', u'booktitle': u'2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM)'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFCOM.2013.6566895', u'author': u'L. Chen and H. W. Lim and G. Yang', u'title': u'Cross-domain password-based authenticated key exchange revisited', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'We revisit the problem of cross-domain secure communication between two users belonging to different security domains within an open and distributed environment. Existing approaches presuppose that either the users are in possession of public key certificates issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA), or the associated domain authentication servers share a long-term secret key. In this paper, we propose a four-party password-based authenticated key exchange (4PAKE) protocol that takes a different approach from previous work. The users are not required to have public key certificates, but they simply reuse their login passwords they share with their respective domain authentication servers. On the other hand, the authentication servers, assumed to be part of a standard PKI, act as ephemeral CAs that \u201ccertify\u201d some key materials that the users can subsequently exchange and agree on a session key. Moreover, we adopt a compositional approach. That is, by treating any secure two-party password-based key exchange protocol and two-party asymmetric-key based key exchange protocol as black boxes, we combine them to obtain a generic and provably secure 4PAKE protocol.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1052-1060', u'year': u'2013', u'keywords': u'cryptographic protocols;public key cryptography;telecommunication security;cross-domain password-based authenticated key exchange;cross-domain secure communication;public key certificates;trusted certificate;domain authentication servers;long-term secret key;four-party password-based authenticated key exchange protocol;two-party password-based key exchange protocol;two-party asymmetric-key based key exchange protocol;Protocols;Servers;Public key;Authentication;Electronic mail;Materials;Password-based protocol;key exchange;cross-domain;client-to-client', 'ID': u'6566895', u'booktitle': u'2013 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057201', u'author': u'J. Chen and S. Yao and Q. Yuan and R. Du and G. Xue', u'title': u'Checks and balances: A tripartite public key infrastructure for secure web-based connections', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Recent real-world attacks against Certification Authorities (CAs) and fraudulently issued certificates arouse the public to rethink the security of public key infrastructure for web-based connections. To distribute the trust of CAs, notaries, as an independent party, are introduced to record certificates, and a client can request an audit proof of certificates from notaries directly. However, there are two challenges. On one hand, existing works consider the security of notaries insufficiently. Due to lack of systematic mutual verification, notaries might bring safety bottlenecks. On the other hand, the service of these works is not sustainable, when any party leaks its private key or fails. In this paper, we propose a Tripartite Public Key Infrastructure (TriPKI), using Certificates Authorities, Integrity Log Servers, and Domain Name Servers, to provide a basis for establishing secure SSL/TLS connections. Specifically, we apply checks-and balances among those three parties in the structure to make them verify mutually, which avoids any single party compromise. Furthermore, we design a collaborative certificate management scheme to provide sustainable services. The security analysis and experiment results demonstrate that our scheme is suitable for practical usage with moderate overhead.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'authorisation;certification;Internet;public key cryptography;balances;tripartite public key infrastructure;Certification Authorities;CAs;fraudulently issued certificates;notaries;independent party;record certificates;systematic mutual verification;party leaks;private key;Certificates Authorities;secure SSL/TLS;checks;single party compromise;collaborative certificate management scheme;security analysis;secure Web-based connections;Public key;Servers;Collaboration;Electronic mail;Conferences;Authentication;Public Key Infrastructure;DNS-based;Mutual Verification', 'ID': u'8057201', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2017.8057201', u'author': u'J. Chen and S. Yao and Q. Yuan and R. Du and G. Xue', u'title': u'Checks and balances: A tripartite public key infrastructure for secure web-based connections', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Recent real-world attacks against Certification Authorities (CAs) and fraudulently issued certificates arouse the public to rethink the security of public key infrastructure for web-based connections. To distribute the trust of CAs, notaries, as an independent party, are introduced to record certificates, and a client can request an audit proof of certificates from notaries directly. However, there are two challenges. On one hand, existing works consider the security of notaries insufficiently. Due to lack of systematic mutual verification, notaries might bring safety bottlenecks. On the other hand, the service of these works is not sustainable, when any party leaks its private key or fails. In this paper, we propose a Tripartite Public Key Infrastructure (TriPKI), using Certificates Authorities, Integrity Log Servers, and Domain Name Servers, to provide a basis for establishing secure SSL/TLS connections. Specifically, we apply checks-and balances among those three parties in the structure to make them verify mutually, which avoids any single party compromise. Furthermore, we design a collaborative certificate management scheme to provide sustainable services. The security analysis and experiment results demonstrate that our scheme is suitable for practical usage with moderate overhead.', u'issn': '', u'number': '', u'month': u'May', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'1-9', u'year': u'2017', u'keywords': u'authorisation;certification;Internet;public key cryptography;balances;tripartite public key infrastructure;Certification Authorities;CAs;fraudulently issued certificates;notaries;independent party;record certificates;systematic mutual verification;party leaks;private key;Certificates Authorities;secure SSL/TLS;checks;single party compromise;collaborative certificate management scheme;security analysis;secure Web-based connections;Public key;Servers;Collaboration;Electronic mail;Conferences;Authentication;Public Key Infrastructure;DNS-based;Mutual Verification', 'ID': u'8057201', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2017 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2014.6847943', u'author': u'W. Sun and S. Yu and W. Lou and Y. T. Hou and H. Li', u'title': u'Protecting your right: Attribute-based keyword search with fine-grained owner-enforced search authorization in the cloud', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'Search over encrypted data is a critically important enabling technique in cloud computing, where encryption-before-outsourcing is a fundamental solution to protecting user data privacy in the untrusted cloud server environment. Many secure search schemes have been focusing on the single-contributor scenario, where the outsourced dataset or the secure searchable index of the dataset are encrypted and managed by a single owner, typically based on symmetric cryptography. In this paper, we focus on a different yet more challenging scenario where the outsourced dataset can be contributed from multiple owners and are searchable by multiple users, i.e. multi-user multi-contributor case. Inspired by attribute-based encryption (ABE), we present the first attribute-based keyword search scheme with efficient user revocation (ABKS-UR) that enables scalable fine-grained (i.e. file-level) search authorization. Our scheme allows multiple owners to encrypt and outsource their data to the cloud server independently. Users can generate their own search capabilities without relying on an always online trusted authority. Fine-grained search authorization is also implemented by the owner-enforced access policy on the index of each file. Further, by incorporating proxy re-encryption and lazy re-encryption techniques, we are able to delegate heavy system update workload during user revocation to the resourceful semi-trusted cloud server. We formalize the security definition and prove the proposed ABKS-UR scheme selectively secure against chosen-keyword attack. Finally, performance evaluation shows the efficiency of our scheme.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'226-234', u'year': u'2014', u'keywords': u'authorisation;cloud computing;cryptography;data privacy;information retrieval;trusted computing;searchable index;encryption;symmetric cryptography;attribute-based encryption;ABE;user revocation;ABKS-UR scheme;always online trusted authority;owner-enforced access policy;proxy re-encryption technique;lazy re-encryption technique;resourceful semi-trusted cloud server;security definition;chosen-keyword attack;single-contributor search scenario;cloud server environment;data privacy;encryption-before-outsourcing;cloud computing;fine-grained owner-enforced search authorization;attribute-based keyword search;Indexes;Authorization;Keyword search;Encryption;Servers;Data privacy', 'ID': u'6847943', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2014 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
{u'doi': u'10.1109/INFOCOM.2014.6847933', u'author': u'X. Zou and H. Li and Y. Sui and W. Peng and F. Li', u'title': u'Assurable, transparent, and mutual restraining e-voting involving multiple conflicting parties', 'ENTRYTYPE': u'inproceedings', u'abstract': u'E-voting techniques and systems have not been widely accepted and deployed by society due to various concerns and problems. One particular issue associated with many existing e-voting techniques is the lack of transparency, leading to the failure to deliver voter assurance. In this work, we propose an assurable, transparent, and mutual restraining e-voting protocol that exploits the existing two-party political dynamics in the US. The proposed e-voting protocol consists of three original technical contributions - universal verifiable voting vector, forward and backward mutual lock voting, and in-process check and enforcement - that, in combination, resolves the apparent conflicts in voting such as anonymity vs. accountability and privacy vs. verifiability. Especially, the trust is split equally among tallying authorities who have conflicting interests and will technically restrain each other. The voting and tallying processes are transparent to voters and any third party, which allow any voter to verify that his vote is indeed counted and also allow any third party to audit the tally.', u'issn': u'0743-166X', u'number': '', u'month': u'April', u'volume': '', u'pages': u'136-144', u'year': u'2014', u'keywords': u'data privacy;government data processing;protocols;E-voting techniques;E-voting systems;universal verifiable voting vector;anonymity;privacy verifiability;transparency;mutual restraining voting;voter assurance;voting processes;tallying processes;backward mutual lock voting;forward mutual lock voting;political Parties;mutual restraining e-voting protocol;multiple conflicting parties;Protocols;Vectors;Cryptography;Electronic voting;Privacy;Computers;Casting;E-voting;Verifiability;Anonymity;Privacy;Assurance;Transparency;Mutual restraining voting', 'ID': u'6847933', u'booktitle': u'IEEE INFOCOM 2014 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications'}
